CHAPTER SIX

 88 

“— STEALING THE CAR, I WOULDN’T HAVE BEEN SUR-
PRISED IF THEY’D EXPELLED YOU, YOU WAIT TILL I

GET HOLD OF YOU, I DON’T SUPPOSE YOU STOPPED
TO THINK WHAT YOUR FATHER AND I WENT THROUGH
WHEN WE SAW IT WAS GONE —”
Mrs. Weasley’s yells, a hundred times louder than usual, made
the plates and spoons rattle on the table, and echoed deafeningly
off the stone walls. People throughout the hall were swiveling
around to see who had received the Howler, and Ron sank so low
in his chair that only his crimson forehead could be seen.
“— LETTER FROM DUMBLEDORE LAST NIGHT, I
THOUGHT YOUR FATHER WOULD DIE OF SHAME, WE
DIDN’T BRING YOU UP TO BEHAVE LIKE THIS, YOU
AND HARRY COULD BOTH HAVE DIED —”
Harry had been wondering when his name was going to crop
up. He tried very hard to look as though he couldn’t hear the voice
that was making his eardrums throb.

“— ABSOLUTELY DISGUSTED — YOUR FATHER’S FAC-
ING AN INQUIRY AT WORK, IT’S ENTIRELY YOUR FAULT

AND IF YOU PUT ANOTHER TOE OUT OF LINE WE’LL
BRING YOU STRAIGHT BACK HOME.”
A ringing silence fell. The red envelope, which had dropped
from Ron’s hand, burst into flames and curled into ashes. Harry
and Ron sat stunned, as though a tidal wave had just passed over
them. A few people laughed and, gradually, a babble of talk broke
out again.
Hermione closed Voyages with Vampires and looked down at the
top of Ron’s head.

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 89 

“Well, I don’t know what you expected, Ron, but you —”
“Don’t tell me I deserved it,” snapped Ron.
Harry pushed his porridge away. His insides were burning with
guilt. Mr. Weasley was facing an inquiry at work. After all Mr. and
Mrs. Weasley had done for him over the summer . . .
But he had no time to dwell on this; Professor McGonagall was
moving along the Gryffindor table, handing out course schedules.
Harry took his and saw that they had double Herbology with the
Hufflepuffs first.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the castle together, crossed the
vegetable patch, and made for the greenhouses, where the magical
plants were kept. At least the Howler had done one good thing:
Hermione seemed to think they had now been punished enough
and was being perfectly friendly again.
As they neared the greenhouses they saw the rest of the class
standing outside, waiting for Professor Sprout. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione had only just joined them when she came striding into

view across the lawn, accompanied by Gilderoy Lockhart. Profes-
sor Sprout’s arms were full of bandages, and with another twinge of

guilt, Harry spotted the Whomping Willow in the distance, several
of its branches now in slings.
Professor Sprout was a squat little witch who wore a patched hat
over her flyaway hair; there was usually a large amount of earth on
her clothes and her fingernails would have made Aunt Petunia
faint. Gilderoy Lockhart, however, was immaculate in sweeping

robes of turquoise, his golden hair shining under a perfectly posi-
tioned turquoise hat with gold trimming.

“Oh, hello there!” he called, beaming around at the assembled

CHAPTER SIX

 90 

students. “Just been showing Professor Sprout the right way to doc-
tor a Whomping Willow! But I don’t want you running away with

the idea that I’m better at Herbology than she is! I just happen to
have met several of these exotic plants on my travels . . .”
“Greenhouse three today, chaps!” said Professor Sprout, who was
looking distinctly disgruntled, not at all her usual cheerful self.
There was a murmur of interest. They had only ever worked in

greenhouse one before — greenhouse three housed far more in-
teresting and dangerous plants. Professor Sprout took a large key

from her belt and unlocked the door. Harry caught a whiff of damp
earth and fertilizer mingling with the heavy perfume of some giant,
umbrella-sized flowers dangling from the ceiling. He was about to
follow Ron and Hermione inside when Lockhart’s hand shot out.
“Harry! I’ve been wanting a word — you don’t mind if he’s a
couple of minutes late, do you, Professor Sprout?”
Judging by Professor Sprout’s scowl, she did mind, but Lockhart
said, “That’s the ticket,” and closed the greenhouse door in her
face.
“Harry,” said Lockhart, his large white teeth gleaming in the
sunlight as he shook his head. “Harry, Harry, Harry.”
Completely nonplussed, Harry said nothing.
“When I heard — well, of course, it was all my fault. Could
have kicked myself.”
Harry had no idea what he was talking about. He was about to
say so when Lockhart went on, “Don’t know when I’ve been more
shocked. Flying a car to Hogwarts! Well, of course, I knew at once
why you’d done it. Stood out a mile. Harry, Harry, Harry.”
It was remarkable how he could show every one of those brilliant
teeth even when he wasn’t talking.

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 91 

“Gave you a taste for publicity, didn’t I?” said Lockhart. “Gave
you the bug. You got onto the front page of the paper with me and
you couldn’t wait to do it again.”
“Oh, no, Professor, see —”
“Harry, Harry, Harry,” said Lockhart, reaching out and grasping
his shoulder. “I understand. Natural to want a bit more once you’ve

had that first taste — and I blame myself for giving you that, be-
cause it was bound to go to your head — but see here, young man,

you can’t start flying cars to try and get yourself noticed. Just calm
down, all right? Plenty of time for all that when you’re older. Yes,

yes, I know what you’re thinking! ‘It’s all right for him, he’s an in-
ternationally famous wizard already!’ But when I was twelve, I was

just as much of a nobody as you are now. In fact, I’d say I was even
more of a nobody! I mean, a few people have heard of you, haven’t
they? All that business with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!” He
glanced at the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead. “I know, I

know — it’s not quite as good as winning Witch Weekly’s Most-
Charming-Smile Award five times in a row, as I have — but it’s a

start, Harry, it’s a start.”
He gave Harry a hearty wink and strode off. Harry stood
stunned for a few seconds, then, remembering he was supposed to
be in the greenhouse, he opened the door and slid inside.

Professor Sprout was standing behind a trestle bench in the cen-
ter of the greenhouse. About twenty pairs of different-colored ear-
muffs were lying on the bench. When Harry had taken his place

between Ron and Hermione, she said, “We’ll be repotting Man-
drakes today. Now, who can tell me the properties of the Man-
drake?”

To nobody’s surprise, Hermione’s hand was first into the air.

CHAPTER SIX

 92 

“Mandrake, or Mandragora, is a powerful restorative,” said Her-
mione, sounding as usual as though she had swallowed the text-
book. “It is used to return people who have been transfigured or

cursed to their original state.”
“Excellent. Ten points to Gryffindor,” said Professor Sprout.
“The Mandrake forms an essential part of most antidotes. It is also,
however, dangerous. Who can tell me why?”
Hermione’s hand narrowly missed Harry’s glasses as it shot up
again.
“The cry of the Mandrake is fatal to anyone who hears it,” she
said promptly.
“Precisely. Take another ten points,” said Professor Sprout.
“Now, the Mandrakes we have here are still very young.”
She pointed to a row of deep trays as she spoke, and everyone
shuffled forward for a better look. A hundred or so tufty little
plants, purplish green in color, were growing there in rows. They
looked quite unremarkable to Harry, who didn’t have the slightest
idea what Hermione meant by the “cry” of the Mandrake.
“Everyone take a pair of earmuffs,” said Professor Sprout.
There was a scramble as everyone tried to seize a pair that wasn’t
pink and fluffy.

“When I tell you to put them on, make sure your ears are com-
pletely covered,” said Professor Sprout. “When it is safe to remove

them, I will give you the thumbs-up. Right — earmuffs on.”
Harry snapped the earmuffs over his ears. They shut out sound
completely. Professor Sprout put the pink, fluffy pair over her own
ears, rolled up the sleeves of her robes, grasped one of the tufty
plants firmly, and pulled hard.

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 93 

Harry let out a gasp of surprise that no one could hear.
Instead of roots, a small, muddy, and extremely ugly baby
popped out of the earth. The leaves were growing right out of his
head. He had pale green, mottled skin, and was clearly bawling at
the top of his lungs.
Professor Sprout took a large plant pot from under the table and

plunged the Mandrake into it, burying him in dark, damp com-
post until only the tufted leaves were visible. Professor Sprout

dusted off her hands, gave them all the thumbs-up, and removed
her own earmuffs.
“As our Mandrakes are only seedlings, their cries won’t kill yet,”
she said calmly as though she’d just done nothing more exciting

than water a begonia. “However, they will knock you out for sev-
eral hours, and as I’m sure none of you want to miss your first day

back, make sure your earmuffs are securely in place while you
work. I will attract your attention when it is time to pack up.

“Four to a tray — there is a large supply of pots here — com-
post in the sacks over there — and be careful of the Venomous

Tentacula, it’s teething.”
She gave a sharp slap to a spiky, dark red plant as she spoke,
making it draw in the long feelers that had been inching sneakily
over her shoulder.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione were joined at their tray by a
curly-haired Hufflepuff boy Harry knew by sight but had never
spoken to.
“Justin Finch-Fletchley,” he said brightly, shaking Harry by the
hand. “Know who you are, of course, the famous Harry Potter. . . .
And you’re Hermione Granger — always top in everything”

CHAPTER SIX

 94 

(Hermione beamed as she had her hand shaken too) “— and
Ron Weasley. Wasn’t that your flying car?”
Ron didn’t smile. The Howler was obviously still on his mind.
“That Lockhart’s something, isn’t he?” said Justin happily as they
began filling their plant pots with dragon dung compost. “Awfully
brave chap. Have you read his books? I’d have died of fear if I’d
been cornered in a telephone booth by a werewolf, but he stayed
cool and — zap — just fantastic.
“My name was down for Eton, you know. I can’t tell you how

glad I am I came here instead. Of course, Mother was slightly dis-
appointed, but since I made her read Lockhart’s books I think she’s

begun to see how useful it’ll be to have a fully trained wizard in the
family. . . .”
After that they didn’t have much chance to talk. Their earmuffs
were back on and they needed to concentrate on the Mandrakes.
Professor Sprout had made it look extremely easy, but it wasn’t. The
Mandrakes didn’t like coming out of the earth, but didn’t seem to
want to go back into it either. They squirmed, kicked, flailed their
sharp little fists, and gnashed their teeth; Harry spent ten whole
minutes trying to squash a particularly fat one into a pot.
By the end of the class, Harry, like everyone else, was sweaty,
aching, and covered in earth. Everyone traipsed back to the castle

for a quick wash and then the Gryffindors hurried off to Transfig-
uration.

Professor McGonagall’s classes were always hard work, but today
was especially difficult. Everything Harry had learned last year
seemed to have leaked out of his head during the summer. He was
supposed to be turning a beetle into a button, but all he managed

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 95 

to do was give his beetle a lot of exercise as it scuttled over the desk-
top avoiding his wand.

Ron was having far worse problems. He had patched up his
wand with some borrowed Spellotape, but it seemed to be damaged
beyond repair. It kept crackling and sparking at odd moments, and
every time Ron tried to transfigure his beetle it engulfed him in
thick gray smoke that smelled of rotten eggs. Unable to see what

he was doing, Ron accidentally squashed his beetle with his el-
bow and had to ask for a new one. Professor McGonagall wasn’t

pleased.
Harry was relieved to hear the lunch bell. His brain felt like a
wrung sponge. Everyone filed out of the classroom except him and
Ron, who was whacking his wand furiously on the desk.
“Stupid — useless — thing —”
“Write home for another one,” Harry suggested as the wand let
off a volley of bangs like a firecracker.
“Oh, yeah, and get another Howler back,” said Ron, stuffing the
now hissing wand into his bag. “ ‘It’s your own fault your wand got
snapped —’ ”
They went down to lunch, where Ron’s mood was not improved
by Hermione’s showing them the handful of perfect coat buttons
she had produced in Transfiguration.
“What’ve we got this afternoon?” said Harry, hastily changing
the subject.
“Defense Against the Dark Arts,” said Hermione at once.
“Why,” demanded Ron, seizing her schedule, “have you outlined
all Lockhart’s lessons in little hearts?”
Hermione snatched the schedule back, blushing furiously.

CHAPTER SIX

 96 

They finished lunch and went outside into the overcast court-
yard. Hermione sat down on a stone step and buried her nose in

Voyages with Vampires again. Harry and Ron stood talking about
Quidditch for several minutes before Harry became aware that he
was being closely watched. Looking up, he saw the very small,
mousy-haired boy he’d seen trying on the Sorting Hat last night
staring at Harry as though transfixed. He was clutching what
looked like an ordinary Muggle camera, and the moment Harry
looked at him, he went bright red.

“All right, Harry? I’m — I’m Colin Creevey,” he said breath-
lessly, taking a tentative step forward. “I’m in Gryffindor, too.

D’you think — would it be all right if — can I have a picture?” he
said, raising the camera hopefully.
“A picture?” Harry repeated blankly.

“So I can prove I’ve met you,” said Colin Creevey eagerly, edg-
ing further forward. “I know all about you. Everyone’s told me.

About how you survived when You-Know-Who tried to kill you
and how he disappeared and everything and how you’ve still got a
lightning scar on your forehead” (his eyes raked Harry’s hairline)
“and a boy in my dormitory said if I develop the film in the right
potion, the pictures’ll move.” Colin drew a great shuddering breath
of excitement and said, “It’s amazing here, isn’t it? I never knew all

the odd stuff I could do was magic till I got the letter from Hog-
warts. My dad’s a milkman, he couldn’t believe it either. So I’m tak-
ing loads of pictures to send home to him. And it’d be really good

if I had one of you” — he looked imploringly at Harry — “maybe
your friend could take it and I could stand next to you? And then,
could you sign it?”

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 97 

“Signed photos? You’re giving out signed photos, Potter?”
Loud and scathing, Draco Malfoy’s voice echoed around the

courtyard. He had stopped right behind Colin, flanked, as he al-
ways was at Hogwarts, by his large and thuggish cronies, Crabbe

and Goyle.
“Everyone line up!” Malfoy roared to the crowd. “Harry Potter’s
giving out signed photos!”
“No, I’m not,” said Harry angrily, his fists clenching. “Shut up,
Malfoy.”
“You’re just jealous,” piped up Colin, whose entire body was
about as thick as Crabbe’s neck.
“Jealous?” said Malfoy, who didn’t need to shout anymore: Half
the courtyard was listening in. “Of what? I don’t want a foul scar
right across my head, thanks. I don’t think getting your head cut
open makes you that special, myself.”
Crabbe and Goyle were sniggering stupidly.
“Eat slugs, Malfoy,” said Ron angrily. Crabbe stopped laughing
and started rubbing his knuckles in a menacing way.
“Be careful, Weasley,” sneered Malfoy. “You don’t want to start
any trouble or your mommy’ll have to come and take you away
from school.” He put on a shrill, piercing voice. “If you put another
toe out of line —”
A knot of Slytherin fifth years nearby laughed loudly at this.
“Weasley would like a signed photo, Potter,” smirked Malfoy.
“It’d be worth more than his family’s whole house —”
Ron whipped out his Spellotaped wand, but Hermione shut
Voyages with Vampires with a snap and whispered, “Look out!”
“What’s all this, what’s all this?” Gilderoy Lockhart was striding

CHAPTER SIX

 98 

toward them, his turquoise robes swirling behind him. “Who’s giv-
ing out signed photos?”

Harry started to speak but he was cut short as Lockhart flung an
arm around his shoulders and thundered jovially, “Shouldn’t have
asked! We meet again, Harry!”
Pinned to Lockhart’s side and burning with humiliation, Harry
saw Malfoy slide smirking back into the crowd.
“Come on then, Mr. Creevey,” said Lockhart, beaming at Colin.
“A double portrait, can’t do better than that, and we’ll both sign it
for you.”
Colin fumbled for his camera and took the picture as the bell
rang behind them, signaling the start of afternoon classes.
“Off you go, move along there,” Lockhart called to the crowd,
and he set off back to the castle with Harry, who was wishing he
knew a good Vanishing Spell, still clasped to his side.
“A word to the wise, Harry,” said Lockhart paternally as they
entered the building through a side door. “I covered up for you
back there with young Creevey — if he was photographing me,
too, your schoolmates won’t think you’re setting yourself up so
much. . . .”
Deaf to Harry’s stammers, Lockhart swept him down a corridor
lined with staring students and up a staircase.
“Let me just say that handing out signed pictures at this stage of
your career isn’t sensible — looks a tad bigheaded, Harry, to be
frank. There may well come a time when, like me, you’ll need to

keep a stack handy wherever you go, but” — he gave a little chor-
tle — “I don’t think you’re quite there yet.”

They had reached Lockhart’s classroom and he let Harry go at

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 99 

last. Harry yanked his robes straight and headed for a seat at the
very back of the class, where he busied himself with piling all seven
of Lockhart’s books in front of him, so that he could avoid looking
at the real thing.
The rest of the class came clattering in, and Ron and Hermione
sat down on either side of Harry.
“You could’ve fried an egg on your face,” said Ron. “You’d better
hope Creevey doesn’t meet Ginny, or they’ll be starting a Harry
Potter fan club.”
“Shut up,” snapped Harry. The last thing he needed was for
Lockhart to hear the phrase “Harry Potter fan club.”
When the whole class was seated, Lockhart cleared his throat
loudly and silence fell. He reached forward, picked up Neville
Longbottom’s copy of Travels with Trolls, and held it up to show his
own, winking portrait on the front.
“Me,” he said, pointing at it and winking as well. “Gilderoy
Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the
Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner of Witch Weekly’s
Most-Charming-Smile Award — but I don’t talk about that. I
didn’t get rid of the Bandon Banshee by smiling at her!”
He waited for them to laugh; a few people smiled weakly.
“I see you’ve all bought a complete set of my books — well
done. I thought we’d start today with a little quiz. Nothing to
worry about — just to check how well you’ve read them, how
much you’ve taken in —”
When he had handed out the test papers he returned to the front
of the class and said, “You have thirty minutes — start — now!”
Harry looked down at his paper and read:

CHAPTER SIX

 100 

1. What is Gilderoy Lockhart’s favorite color?
2. What is Gilderoy Lockhart’s secret ambition?
3. What, in your opinion, is Gilderoy Lockhart’s
greatest achievement to date?

On and on it went, over three sides of paper, right down to:
54. When is Gilderoy Lockhart’s birthday, and what
would his ideal gift be?

Half an hour later, Lockhart collected the papers and rifled
through them in front of the class.
“Tut, tut — hardly any of you remembered that my favorite
color is lilac. I say so in Year with the Yeti. And a few of you need to
read Wanderings with Werewolves more carefully — I clearly state in

chapter twelve that my ideal birthday gift would be harmony be-
tween all magic and non-magic peoples — though I wouldn’t say no

to a large bottle of Ogden’s Old Firewhisky!”
He gave them another roguish wink. Ron was now staring at

Lockhart with an expression of disbelief on his face; Seamus Finni-
gan and Dean Thomas, who were sitting in front, were shaking

with silent laughter. Hermione, on the other hand, was listening to
Lockhart with rapt attention and gave a start when he mentioned
her name.
“. . . but Miss Hermione Granger knew my secret ambition is to

rid the world of evil and market my own range of hair-care po-
tions — good girl! In fact” — he flipped her paper over — “full

marks! Where is Miss Hermione Granger?”

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 101 
Hermione raised a trembling hand.
“Excellent!” beamed Lockhart. “Quite excellent! Take ten points
for Gryffindor! And so — to business —”
He bent down behind his desk and lifted a large, covered cage
onto it.
“Now — be warned! It is my job to arm you against the foulest
creatures known to wizardkind! You may find yourselves facing
your worst fears in this room. Know only that no harm can befall
you whilst I am here. All I ask is that you remain calm.”
In spite of himself, Harry leaned around his pile of books for a
better look at the cage. Lockhart placed a hand on the cover. Dean
and Seamus had stopped laughing now. Neville was cowering in his
front row seat.
“I must ask you not to scream,” said Lockhart in a low voice. “It
might provoke them.”
As the whole class held its breath, Lockhart whipped off the
cover.
“Yes,” he said dramatically. “Freshly caught Cornish pixies.”
Seamus Finnigan couldn’t control himself. He let out a snort of
laughter that even Lockhart couldn’t mistake for a scream of terror.
“Yes?” He smiled at Seamus.
“Well, they’re not — they’re not very — dangerous, are they?”
Seamus choked.
“Don’t be so sure!” said Lockhart, waggling a finger annoyingly
at Seamus. “Devilish tricky little blighters they can be!”
The pixies were electric blue and about eight inches high, with
pointed faces and voices so shrill it was like listening to a lot of
budgies arguing. The moment the cover had been removed, they

CHAPTER SIX

 102 

had started jabbering and rocketing around, rattling the bars and
making bizarre faces at the people nearest them.
“Right, then,” Lockhart said loudly. “Let’s see what you make of
them!” And he opened the cage.
It was pandemonium. The pixies shot in every direction like
rockets. Two of them seized Neville by the ears and lifted him into
the air. Several shot straight through the window, showering the

back row with broken glass. The rest proceeded to wreck the class-
room more effectively than a rampaging rhino. They grabbed ink

bottles and sprayed the class with them, shredded books and pa-
pers, tore pictures from the walls, up-ended the waste basket,

grabbed bags and books and threw them out of the smashed win-
dow; within minutes, half the class was sheltering under desks and

Neville was swinging from the iron chandelier in the ceiling.
“Come on now — round them up, round them up, they’re only
pixies,” Lockhart shouted.
He rolled up his sleeves, brandished his wand, and bellowed,
“Peskipiksi Pesternomi!”
It had absolutely no effect; one of the pixies seized his wand and
threw it out of the window, too. Lockhart gulped and dived under
his own desk, narrowly avoiding being squashed by Neville, who
fell a second later as the chandelier gave way.
The bell rang and there was a mad rush toward the exit. In the
relative calm that followed, Lockhart straightened up, caught sight
of Harry, Ron, and Hermione, who were almost at the door, and
said, “Well, I’ll ask you three to just nip the rest of them back into
their cage.” He swept past them and shut the door quickly behind
him.

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 103 

“Can you believe him?” roared Ron as one of the remaining pix-
ies bit him painfully on the ear.

“He just wants to give us some hands-on experience,” said
Hermione, immobilizing two pixies at once with a clever Freezing
Charm and stuffing them back into their cage.
“Hands on?” said Harry, who was trying to grab a pixie dancing
out of reach with its tongue out. “Hermione, he didn’t have a clue
what he was doing —”
“Rubbish,” said Hermione. “You’ve read his books — look at all
those amazing things he’s done —”
“He says he’s done,” Ron muttered.

C H A P T E R S E V E N

 104 

MUDBLOODS
AND MURMURS

arry spent a lot of time over the next few days dodging
out of sight whenever he saw Gilderoy Lockhart coming
down a corridor. Harder to avoid was Colin Creevey, who seemed
to have memorized Harry’s schedule. Nothing seemed to give
Colin a bigger thrill than to say, “All right, Harry?” six or seven
times a day and hear, “Hello, Colin,” back, however exasperated
Harry sounded when he said it.
Hedwig was still angry with Harry about the disasterous car
journey and Ron’s wand was still malfunctioning, surpassing itself
on Friday morning by shooting out of Ron’s hand in Charms and

hitting tiny old Professor Flitwick squarely between the eyes, creat-
ing a large, throbbing green boil where it had struck. So with one

thing and another, Harry was quite glad to reach the weekend. He,
Ron, and Hermione were planning to visit Hagrid on Saturday
morning. Harry, however, was shaken awake several hours earlier
H

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 105 

than he would have liked by Oliver Wood, Captain of the Gryf-
findor Quidditch team.

“Whassamatter?” said Harry groggily.
“Quidditch practice!” said Wood. “Come on!”
Harry squinted at the window. There was a thin mist hanging
across the pink-and-gold sky. Now that he was awake, he couldn’t
understand how he could have slept through the racket the birds
were making.
“Oliver,” Harry croaked. “It’s the crack of dawn.”
“Exactly,” said Wood. He was a tall and burly sixth year and, at
the moment, his eyes were gleaming with a crazed enthusiasm. “It’s
part of our new training program. Come on, grab your broom, and
let’s go,” said Wood heartily. “None of the other teams have started
training yet; we’re going to be first off the mark this year —”
Yawning and shivering slightly, Harry climbed out of bed and
tried to find his Quidditch robes.

“Good man,” said Wood. “Meet you on the field in fifteen min-
utes.”

When he’d found his scarlet team robes and pulled on his cloak
for warmth, Harry scribbled a note to Ron explaining where
he’d gone and went down the spiral staircase to the common
room, his Nimbus Two Thousand on his shoulder. He had just
reached the portrait hole when there was a clatter behind him and
Colin Creevey came dashing down the spiral staircase, his camera
swinging madly around his neck and something clutched in his
hand.
“I heard someone saying your name on the stairs, Harry! Look
what I’ve got here! I’ve had it developed, I wanted to show you —”

CHAPTER SEVEN

 106 

Harry looked bemusedly at the photograph Colin was brandish-
ing under his nose.

A moving, black-and-white Lockhart was tugging hard on an
arm Harry recognized as his own. He was pleased to see that his
photographic self was putting up a good fight and refusing to be
dragged into view. As Harry watched, Lockhart gave up and
slumped, panting, against the white edge of the picture.
“Will you sign it?” said Colin eagerly.
“No,” said Harry flatly, glancing around to check that the room
was really deserted. “Sorry, Colin, I’m in a hurry — Quidditch
practice —”
He climbed through the portrait hole.
“Oh, wow! Wait for me! I’ve never watched a Quidditch game
before!”
Colin scrambled through the hole after him.
“It’ll be really boring,” Harry said quickly, but Colin ignored
him, his face shining with excitement.
“You were the youngest House player in a hundred years, weren’t
you, Harry? Weren’t you?” said Colin, trotting alongside him. “You
must be brilliant. I’ve never flown. Is it easy? Is that your own
broom? Is that the best one there is?”
Harry didn’t know how to get rid of him. It was like having an
extremely talkative shadow.
“I don’t really understand Quidditch,” said Colin breathlessly.
“Is it true there are four balls? And two of them fly around trying
to knock people off their brooms?”
“Yes,” said Harry heavily, resigned to explaining the complicated
rules of Quidditch. “They’re called Bludgers. There are two Beaters

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 107 

on each team who carry clubs to beat the Bludgers away from their
side. Fred and George Weasley are the Gryffindor Beaters.”
“And what are the other balls for?” Colin asked, tripping down a
couple of steps because he was gazing open-mouthed at Harry.
“Well, the Quaffle — that’s the biggish red one — is the one
that scores goals. Three Chasers on each team throw the Quaffle to
each other and try and get it through the goal posts at the end of
the pitch — they’re three long poles with hoops on the end.”
“And the fourth ball —”
“— is the Golden Snitch,” said Harry, “and it’s very small, very
fast, and difficult to catch. But that’s what the Seeker’s got to do,
because a game of Quidditch doesn’t end until the Snitch has been
caught. And whichever team’s Seeker gets the Snitch earns his team
an extra hundred and fifty points.”
“And you’re the Gryffindor Seeker, aren’t you?” said Colin in awe.
“Yes,” said Harry as they left the castle and started across the
dew-drenched grass. “And there’s the Keeper, too. He guards the
goal posts. That’s it, really.”
But Colin didn’t stop questioning Harry all the way down the
sloping lawns to the Quidditch field, and Harry only shook him
off when he reached the changing rooms; Colin called after him in
a piping voice, “I’ll go and get a good seat, Harry!” and hurried off
to the stands.

The rest of the Gryffindor team were already in the chang-
ing room. Wood was the only person who looked truly awake.

Fred and George Weasley were sitting, puffy-eyed and tousle-
haired, next to fourth year Alicia Spinnet, who seemed to be nod-
ding off against the wall behind her. Her fellow Chasers, Katie

CHAPTER SEVEN

 108 

Bell and Angelina Johnson, were yawning side by side opposite
them.
“There you are, Harry, what kept you?” said Wood briskly.
“Now, I wanted a quick talk with you all before we actually get
onto the field, because I spent the summer devising a whole new

training program, which I really think will make all the differ-
ence. . . .”

Wood was holding up a large diagram of a Quidditch field, on

which were drawn many lines, arrows, and crosses in different-
colored inks. He took out his wand, tapped the board, and the

arrows began to wiggle over the diagram like caterpillars. As Wood
launched into a speech about his new tactics, Fred Weasley’s head
drooped right onto Alicia Spinnet’s shoulder and he began to
snore.
The first board took nearly twenty minutes to explain, but there
was another board under that, and a third under that one. Harry
sank into a stupor as Wood droned on and on.

“So,” said Wood, at long last, jerking Harry from a wistful fan-
tasy about what he could be eating for breakfast at this very mo-
ment up at the castle. “Is that clear? Any questions?”

“I’ve got a question, Oliver,” said George, who had woken with
a start. “Why couldn’t you have told us all this yesterday when we
were awake?”
Wood wasn’t pleased.
“Now, listen here, you lot,” he said, glowering at them all. “We
should have won the Quidditch Cup last year. We’re easily the best
team. But unfortunately — owing to circumstances beyond our
control —”

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 109 

Harry shifted guiltily in his seat. He had been unconscious in
the hospital wing for the final match of the previous year, meaning
that Gryffindor had been a player short and had suffered their
worst defeat in three hundred years.

Wood took a moment to regain control of himself. Their last de-
feat was clearly still torturing him.

“So this year, we train harder than ever before. . . . Okay, let’s go
and put our new theories into practice!” Wood shouted, seizing his

broomstick and leading the way out of the locker rooms. Stiff-
legged and still yawning, his team followed.

They had been in the locker room so long that the sun was up
completely now, although remnants of mist hung over the grass in

the stadium. As Harry walked onto the field, he saw Ron and Her-
mione sitting in the stands.

“Aren’t you finished yet?” called Ron incredulously.
“Haven’t even started,” said Harry, looking jealously at the toast
and marmalade Ron and Hermione had brought out of the Great
Hall. “Wood’s been teaching us new moves.”
He mounted his broomstick and kicked at the ground, soaring
up into the air. The cool morning air whipped his face, waking him
far more effectively than Wood’s long talk. It felt wonderful to be
back on the Quidditch field. He soared right around the stadium
at full speed, racing Fred and George.
“What’s that funny clicking noise?” called Fred as they hurtled
around the corner.
Harry looked into the stands. Colin was sitting in one of the
highest seats, his camera raised, taking picture after picture, the
sound strangely magnified in the deserted stadium.

CHAPTER SEVEN

 110 

“Look this way, Harry! This way!” he cried shrilly.
“Who’s that?” said Fred.
“No idea,” Harry lied, putting on a spurt of speed that took him
as far away as possible from Colin.
“What’s going on?” said Wood, frowning, as he skimmed
through the air toward them. “Why’s that first year taking pictures?
I don’t like it. He could be a Slytherin spy, trying to find out about
our new training program.”
“He’s in Gryffindor,” said Harry quickly.
“And the Slytherins don’t need a spy, Oliver,” said George.
“What makes you say that?” said Wood testily.
“Because they’re here in person,” said George, pointing.
Several people in green robes were walking onto the field,
broomsticks in their hands.
“I don’t believe it!” Wood hissed in outrage. “I booked the field
for today! We’ll see about this!”
Wood shot toward the ground, landing rather harder than he
meant to in his anger, staggering slightly as he dismounted. Harry,
Fred, and George followed.
“Flint!” Wood bellowed at the Slytherin Captain. “This is our
practice time! We got up specially! You can clear off now!”

Marcus Flint was even larger than Wood. He had a look of troll-
ish cunning on his face as he replied, “Plenty of room for all of us,

Wood.”
Angelina, Alicia, and Katie had come over, too. There were no
girls on the Slytherin team, who stood shoulder to shoulder, facing
the Gryffindors, leering to a man.
“But I booked the field!” said Wood, positively spitting with
rage. “I booked it!”

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 111 

“Ah,” said Flint. “But I’ve got a specially signed note here from

Professor Snape. ‘I, Professor S. Snape, give the Slytherin team per-
mission to practice today on the Quidditch field owing to the need to

train their new Seeker.’ ”
“You’ve got a new Seeker?” said Wood, distracted. “Where?”

And from behind the six large figures before them came a sev-
enth, smaller boy, smirking all over his pale, pointed face. It was

Draco Malfoy.
“Aren’t you Lucius Malfoy’s son?” said Fred, looking at Malfoy
with dislike.
“Funny you should mention Draco’s father,” said Flint as the
whole Slytherin team smiled still more broadly. “Let me show you
the generous gift he’s made to the Slytherin team.”

All seven of them held out their broomsticks. Seven highly pol-
ished, brand-new handles and seven sets of fine gold lettering

spelling the words Nimbus Two Thousand and One gleamed under
the Gryffindors’ noses in the early morning sun.
“Very latest model. Only came out last month,” said Flint

carelessly, flicking a speck of dust from the end of his own. “I be-
lieve it outstrips the old Two Thousand series by a considerable

amount. As for the old Cleansweeps” — he smiled nastily at Fred
and George, who were both clutching Cleansweep Fives — “sweeps
the board with them.”
None of the Gryffindor team could think of anything to say for

a moment. Malfoy was smirking so broadly his cold eyes were re-
duced to slits.

“Oh, look,” said Flint. “A field invasion.”

Ron and Hermione were crossing the grass to see what was go-
ing on.

CHAPTER SEVEN

 112 

“What’s happening?” Ron asked Harry. “Why aren’t you play-
ing? And what’s he doing here?”

He was looking at Malfoy, taking in his Slytherin Quidditch
robes.
“I’m the new Slytherin Seeker, Weasley,” said Malfoy, smugly.
“Everyone’s just been admiring the brooms my father’s bought our
team.”
Ron gaped, openmouthed, at the seven superb broomsticks in
front of him.
“Good, aren’t they?” said Malfoy smoothly. “But perhaps the
Gryffindor team will be able to raise some gold and get new
brooms, too. You could raffle off those Cleansweep Fives; I expect
a museum would bid for them.”
The Slytherin team howled with laughter.
“At least no one on the Gryffindor team had to buy their way
in,” said Hermione sharply. “They got in on pure talent.”
The smug look on Malfoy’s face flickered.
“No one asked your opinion, you filthy little Mudblood,” he
spat.
Harry knew at once that Malfoy had said something really bad
because there was an instant uproar at his words. Flint had to dive

in front of Malfoy to stop Fred and George jumping on him, Ali-
cia shrieked, “How dare you!”, and Ron plunged his hand into his

robes, pulled out his wand, yelling, “You’ll pay for that one, Mal-
foy!” and pointed it furiously under Flint’s arm at Malfoy’s face.

A loud bang echoed around the stadium and a jet of green light

shot out of the wrong end of Ron’s wand, hitting him in the stom-
ach and sending him reeling backward onto the grass.

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 113 

“Ron! Ron! Are you all right?” squealed Hermione.
Ron opened his mouth to speak, but no words came out. Instead
he gave an almighty belch and several slugs dribbled out of his
mouth onto his lap.

The Slytherin team were paralyzed with laughter. Flint was dou-
bled up, hanging onto his new broomstick for support. Malfoy was

on all fours, banging the ground with his fist. The Gryffindors were
gathered around Ron, who kept belching large, glistening slugs.
Nobody seemed to want to touch him.
“We’d better get him to Hagrid’s, it’s nearest,” said Harry to
Hermione, who nodded bravely, and the pair of them pulled Ron
up by the arms.
“What happened, Harry? What happened? Is he ill? But you can
cure him, can’t you?” Colin had run down from his seat and was
now dancing alongside them as they left the field. Ron gave a huge
heave and more slugs dribbled down his front.
“Oooh,” said Colin, fascinated and raising his camera. “Can you
hold him still, Harry?”

“Get out of the way, Colin!” said Harry angrily. He and Her-
mione supported Ron out of the stadium and across the grounds

toward the edge of the forest.
“Nearly there, Ron,” said Hermione as the gamekeeper’s cabin
came into view. “You’ll be all right in a minute — almost there —”
They were within twenty feet of Hagrid’s house when the front

door opened, but it wasn’t Hagrid who emerged. Gilderoy Lock-
hart, wearing robes of palest mauve today, came striding out.

“Quick, behind here,” Harry hissed, dragging Ron behind a
nearby bush. Hermione followed, somewhat reluctantly.

CHAPTER SEVEN

 114 

“It’s a simple matter if you know what you’re doing!” Lockhart
was saying loudly to Hagrid. “If you need help, you know where I
am! I’ll let you have a copy of my book. I’m surprised you haven’t
already got one — I’ll sign one tonight and send it over. Well,
good-bye!” And he strode away toward the castle.
Harry waited until Lockhart was out of sight, then pulled Ron

out of the bush and up to Hagrid’s front door. They knocked ur-
gently.

Hagrid appeared at once, looking very grumpy, but his expres-
sion brightened when he saw who it was.

“Bin wonderin’ when you’d come ter see me — come in, come
in — thought you mighta bin Professor Lockhart back again —”
Harry and Hermione supported Ron over the threshold into the
one-roomed cabin, which had an enormous bed in one corner, a
fire crackling merrily in the other. Hagrid didn’t seem perturbed by
Ron’s slug problem, which Harry hastily explained as he lowered
Ron into a chair.
“Better out than in,” he said cheerfully, plunking a large copper
basin in front of him. “Get ’em all up, Ron.”
“I don’t think there’s anything to do except wait for it to stop,”
said Hermione anxiously, watching Ron bend over the basin.

“That’s a difficult curse to work at the best of times, but with a bro-
ken wand —”

Hagrid was bustling around making them tea. His boarhound,
Fang, was slobbering over Harry.
“What did Lockhart want with you, Hagrid?” Harry asked,
scratching Fang’s ears.
“Givin’ me advice on gettin’ kelpies out of a well,” growled

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 115 

Hagrid, moving a half-plucked rooster off his scrubbed table and
setting down the teapot. “Like I don’ know. An’ bangin’ on about
some banshee he banished. If one word of it was true, I’ll eat my
kettle.”
It was most unlike Hagrid to criticize a Hogwarts teacher, and
Harry looked at him in surprise. Hermione, however, said in a

voice somewhat higher than usual, “I think you’re being a bit un-
fair. Professor Dumbledore obviously thought he was the best man

for the job —”
“He was the on’y man for the job,” said Hagrid, offering them a
plate of treacle toffee, while Ron coughed squelchily into his basin.
“An’ I mean the on’y one. Gettin’ very difficult ter find anyone fer
the Dark Arts job. People aren’t too keen ter take it on, see. They’re
startin’ ter think it’s jinxed. No one’s lasted long fer a while now. So
tell me,” said Hagrid, jerking his head at Ron. “Who was he tryin’
ter curse?”
“Malfoy called Hermione something — it must’ve been really
bad, because everyone went wild.”

“It was bad,” said Ron hoarsely, emerging over the tabletop look-
ing pale and sweaty. “Malfoy called her ‘Mudblood,’ Hagrid —”

Ron dived out of sight again as a fresh wave of slugs made their
appearance. Hagrid looked outraged.
“He didn’!” he growled at Hermione.
“He did,” she said. “But I don’t know what it means. I could tell
it was really rude, of course —”
“It’s about the most insulting thing he could think of,” gasped
Ron, coming back up. “Mudblood’s a really foul name for someone
who is Muggle-born — you know, non-magic parents. There are

CHAPTER SEVEN

 116 

some wizards — like Malfoy’s family — who think they’re better
than everyone else because they’re what people call pure-blood.”
He gave a small burp, and a single slug fell into his outstretched
hand. He threw it into the basin and continued, “I mean, the rest
of us know it doesn’t make any difference at all. Look at Neville

Longbottom — he’s pure-blood and he can hardly stand a caul-
dron the right way up.”

“An’ they haven’t invented a spell our Hermione can’ do,” said
Hagrid proudly, making Hermione go a brilliant shade of magenta.
“It’s a disgusting thing to call someone,” said Ron, wiping his
sweaty brow with a shaking hand. “Dirty blood, see. Common

blood. It’s ridiculous. Most wizards these days are half-blood any-
way. If we hadn’t married Muggles we’d’ve died out.”

He retched and ducked out of sight again.

“Well, I don’ blame yeh fer tryin’ ter curse him, Ron,” said Ha-
grid loudly over the thuds of more slugs hitting the basin. “Bu’

maybe it was a good thing yer wand backfired. ’Spect Lucius Mal-
foy would’ve come marchin’ up ter school if yeh’d cursed his son.

Least yer not in trouble.”
Harry would have pointed out that trouble didn’t come much
worse than having slugs pouring out of your mouth, but he
couldn’t; Hagrid’s treacle toffee had cemented his jaws together.
“Harry,” said Hagrid abruptly as though struck by a sudden
thought. “Gotta bone ter pick with yeh. I’ve heard you’ve bin givin’
out signed photos. How come I haven’t got one?”
Furious, Harry wrenched his teeth apart.
“I have not been giving out signed photos,” he said hotly. “If
Lockhart’s still spreading that around —”

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 117 
But then he saw that Hagrid was laughing.
“I’m on’y jokin’,” he said, patting Harry genially on the back and
sending him face first into the table. “I knew yeh hadn’t really. I

told Lockhart yeh didn’ need teh. Yer more famous than him with-
out tryin’.”

“Bet he didn’t like that,” said Harry, sitting up and rubbing his
chin.
“Don’ think he did,” said Hagrid, his eyes twinkling. “An’ then
I told him I’d never read one o’ his books an’ he decided ter go.
Treacle toffee, Ron?” he added as Ron reappeared.
“No thanks,” said Ron weakly. “Better not risk it.”
“Come an’ see what I’ve bin growin’,” said Hagrid as Harry and
Hermione finished the last of their tea.
In the small vegetable patch behind Hagrid’s house were a dozen
of the largest pumpkins Harry had ever seen. Each was the size of a
large boulder.

“Gettin’ on well, aren’t they?” said Hagrid happily. “Fer the Hal-
loween feast . . . should be big enough by then.”

“What’ve you been feeding them?” said Harry.
Hagrid looked over his shoulder to check that they were alone.
“Well, I’ve bin givin’ them — you know — a bit o’ help —”
Harry noticed Hagrid’s flowery pink umbrella leaning against
the back wall of the cabin. Harry had had reason to believe before
now that this umbrella was not all it looked; in fact, he had the

strong impression that Hagrid’s old school wand was concealed in-
side it. Hagrid wasn’t supposed to use magic. He had been expelled

from Hogwarts in his third year, but Harry had never found out
why — any mention of the matter and Hagrid would clear his

CHAPTER SEVEN

 118 

throat loudly and become mysteriously deaf until the subject was
changed.
“An Engorgement Charm, I suppose?” said Hermione, halfway
between disapproval and amusement. “Well, you’ve done a good
job on them.”
“That’s what yer little sister said,” said Hagrid, nodding at Ron.
“Met her jus’ yesterday.” Hagrid looked sideways at Harry, his
beard twitching. “Said she was jus’ lookin’ round the grounds, but
I reckon she was hopin’ she might run inter someone else at my
house.” He winked at Harry. “If yeh ask me, she wouldn’ say no ter
a signed —”
“Oh, shut up,” said Harry. Ron snorted with laughter and the
ground was sprayed with slugs.
“Watch it!” Hagrid roared, pulling Ron away from his precious
pumpkins.
It was nearly lunchtime and as Harry had only had one bit of
treacle toffee since dawn, he was keen to go back to school to eat.
They said good-bye to Hagrid and walked back up to the castle,
Ron hiccoughing occasionally, but only bringing up two very small
slugs.
They had barely set foot in the cool entrance hall when a voice

rang out, “There you are, Potter — Weasley.” Professor McGona-
gall was walking toward them, looking stern. “You will both do

your detentions this evening.”
“What’re we doing, Professor?” said Ron, nervously suppressing
a burp.
“You will be polishing the silver in the trophy room with Mr.

Filch,” said Professor McGonagall. “And no magic, Weasley — el-
bow grease.”

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 119 

Ron gulped. Argus Filch, the caretaker, was loathed by every stu-
dent in the school.

“And you, Potter, will be helping Professor Lockhart answer his
fan mail,” said Professor McGonagall.
“Oh n — Professor, can’t I go and do the trophy room, too?”
said Harry desperately.
“Certainly not,” said Professor McGonagall, raising her eyebrows.
“Professor Lockhart requested you particularly. Eight o’clock
sharp, both of you.”
Harry and Ron slouched into the Great Hall in states of deepest

gloom, Hermione behind them, wearing a well-you-did-break-
school-rules sort of expression. Harry didn’t enjoy his shepherd’s pie

as much as he’d thought. Both he and Ron felt they’d got the worse
deal.
“Filch’ll have me there all night,” said Ron heavily. “No magic!
There must be about a hundred cups in that room. I’m no good at
Muggle cleaning.”

“I’d swap anytime,” said Harry hollowly. “I’ve had loads of prac-
tice with the Dursleys. Answering Lockhart’s fan mail . . . he’ll be a

nightmare. . . .”
Saturday afternoon seemed to melt away, and in what seemed
like no time, it was five minutes to eight, and Harry was dragging
his feet along the second-floor corridor to Lockhart’s office. He
gritted his teeth and knocked.
The door flew open at once. Lockhart beamed down at him.
“Ah, here’s the scalawag!” he said. “Come in, Harry, come in —”
Shining brightly on the walls by the light of many candles were
countless framed photographs of Lockhart. He had even signed a
few of them. Another large pile lay on his desk.

CHAPTER SEVEN

 120 

“You can address the envelopes!” Lockhart told Harry, as though
this was a huge treat. “This first one’s to Gladys Gudgeon, bless
her — huge fan of mine —”
The minutes snailed by. Harry let Lockhart’s voice wash over
him, occasionally saying, “Mmm” and “Right” and “Yeah.” Now
and then he caught a phrase like, “Fame’s a fickle friend, Harry,” or
“Celebrity is as celebrity does, remember that.”
The candles burned lower and lower, making the light dance
over the many moving faces of Lockhart watching him. Harry

moved his aching hand over what felt like the thousandth enve-
lope, writing out Veronica Smethley’s address. It must be nearly time

to leave, Harry thought miserably, please let it be nearly time. . . .
And then he heard something — something quite apart from
the spitting of the dying candles and Lockhart’s prattle about his
fans.

It was a voice, a voice to chill the bone marrow, a voice of breath-
taking, ice-cold venom.

“Come . . . come to me. . . . Let me rip you. . . . Let me tear
you. . . . Let me kill you. . . .”
Harry gave a huge jump and a large lilac blot appeared on
Veronica Smethley’s street.
“What?” he said loudly.
“I know!” said Lockhart. “Six solid months at the top of the
best-seller list! Broke all records!”
“No,” said Harry frantically. “That voice!”
“Sorry?” said Lockhart, looking puzzled. “What voice?”
“That — that voice that said — didn’t you hear it?”
Lockhart was looking at Harry in high astonishment.

MUDBLOODS AND MURMURS

 121 

“What are you talking about, Harry? Perhaps you’re getting a lit-
tle drowsy? Great Scott — look at the time! “We’ve been here nearly

four hours! I’d never have believed it — the time’s flown, hasn’t it?”
Harry didn’t answer. He was straining his ears to hear the voice
again, but there was no sound now except for Lockhart telling him

he mustn’t expect a treat like this every time he got detention. Feel-
ing dazed, Harry left.

It was so late that the Gryffindor common room was almost
empty. Harry went straight up to the dormitory. Ron wasn’t back
yet. Harry pulled on his pajamas, got into bed, and waited. Half an
hour later, Ron arrived, nursing his right arm and bringing a strong
smell of polish into the darkened room.
“My muscles have all seized up,” he groaned, sinking on his bed.
“Fourteen times he made me buff up that Quidditch Cup before he
was satisfied. And then I had another slug attack all over a Special
Award for Services to the School. Took ages to get the slime off. . . .
How was it with Lockhart?”

Keeping his voice low so as not to wake Neville, Dean, and Sea-
mus, Harry told Ron exactly what he had heard.

“And Lockhart said he couldn’t hear it?” said Ron. Harry could
see him frowning in the moonlight. “D’you think he was lying?
But I don’t get it — even someone invisible would’ve had to open
the door.”
“I know,” said Harry, lying back in his four-poster and staring at
the canopy above him. “I don’t get it either.”

C H A P T E R E I G H T

 122 

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

ctober arrived, spreading a damp chill over the grounds
and into the castle. Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was kept
busy by a sudden spate of colds among the staff and students. Her

Pepperup Potion worked instantly, though it left the drinker smok-
ing at the ears for several hours afterward. Ginny Weasley, who had

been looking pale, was bullied into taking some by Percy. The
steam pouring from under her vivid hair gave the impression that
her whole head was on fire.
Raindrops the size of bullets thundered on the castle windows
for days on end; the lake rose, the flower beds turned into muddy
streams, and Hagrid’s pumpkins swelled to the size of garden sheds.
Oliver Wood’s enthusiasm for regular training sessions, however,
was not dampened, which was why Harry was to be found, late one
stormy Saturday afternoon a few days before Halloween, returning
to Gryffindor Tower, drenched to the skin and splattered with mud.
O

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 123 

Even aside from the rain and wind it hadn’t been a happy prac-
tice session. Fred and George, who had been spying on the Slyth-
erin team, had seen for themselves the speed of those new Nimbus

Two Thousand and Ones. They reported that the Slytherin team
was no more than seven greenish blurs, shooting through the air
like missiles.
As Harry squelched along the deserted corridor he came across

somebody who looked just as preoccupied as he was. Nearly Head-
less Nick, the ghost of Gryffindor Tower, was staring morosely out

of a window, muttering under his breath, “. . . don’t fulfill their re-
quirements . . . half an inch, if that . . .”

“Hello, Nick,” said Harry.
“Hello, hello,” said Nearly Headless Nick, starting and looking
round. He wore a dashing, plumed hat on his long curly hair, and

a tunic with a ruff, which concealed the fact that his neck was al-
most completely severed. He was pale as smoke, and Harry could

see right through him to the dark sky and torrential rain outside.

“You look troubled, young Potter,” said Nick, folding a trans-
parent letter as he spoke and tucking it inside his doublet.

“So do you,” said Harry.
“Ah,” Nearly Headless Nick waved an elegant hand, “a matter of
no importance. . . . It’s not as though I really wanted to join. . . .
Thought I’d apply, but apparently I ‘don’t fulfill requirements’ —”
In spite of his airy tone, there was a look of great bitterness on
his face.
“But you would think, wouldn’t you,” he erupted suddenly,
pulling the letter back out of his pocket, “that getting hit forty-five
times in the neck with a blunt axe would qualify you to join the
Headless Hunt?”

CHAPTER EIGHT

 124 

“Oh — yes,” said Harry, who was obviously supposed to agree.
“I mean, nobody wishes more than I do that it had all been
quick and clean, and my head had come off properly, I mean, it
would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. However —”
Nearly Headless Nick shook his letter open and read furiously:
“ ‘We can only accept huntsmen whose heads have
parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate
that it would be impossible otherwise for members to

participate in hunt activities such as Horseback Head-
Juggling and Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret,

therefore, that I must inform you that you do not ful-
fill our requirements. With very best wishes, Sir

Patrick Delaney-Podmore.’ ”
Fuming, Nearly Headless Nick stuffed the letter away.
“Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Harry!
Most people would think that’s good and beheaded, but oh, no, it’s
not enough for Sir Properly Decapitated-Podmore.”
Nearly Headless Nick took several deep breaths and then said, in
a far calmer tone, “So — what’s bothering you? Anything I can do?”
“No,” said Harry. “Not unless you know where we can get seven
free Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for our match against Sly —”
The rest of Harry’s sentence was drowned out by a high-pitched
mewling from somewhere near his ankles. He looked down and
found himself gazing into a pair of lamp-like yellow eyes. It was

Mrs. Norris, the skeletal gray cat who was used by the caretaker, Ar-
gus Filch, as a sort of deputy in his endless battle against students.

“You’d better get out of here, Harry,” said Nick quickly. “Filch

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 125 

isn’t in a good mood — he’s got the flu and some third years acci-
dentally plastered frog brains all over the ceiling in dungeon five.

He’s been cleaning all morning, and if he sees you dripping mud all
over the place —”
“Right,” said Harry, backing away from the accusing stare of Mrs.

Norris, but not quickly enough. Drawn to the spot by the mysteri-
ous power that seemed to connect him with his foul cat, Argus Filch

burst suddenly through a tapestry to Harry’s right, wheezing and
looking wildly about for the rule-breaker. There was a thick tartan
scarf bound around his head, and his nose was unusually purple.

“Filth!” he shouted, his jowls aquiver, his eyes popping alarm-
ingly as he pointed at the muddy puddle that had dripped from

Harry’s Quidditch robes. “Mess and muck everywhere! I’ve had
enough of it, I tell you! Follow me, Potter!”
So Harry waved a gloomy good-bye to Nearly Headless Nick and
followed Filch back downstairs, doubling the number of muddy
footprints on the floor.
Harry had never been inside Filch’s office before; it was a place
most students avoided. The room was dingy and windowless, lit by
a single oil lamp dangling from the low ceiling. A faint smell of fried
fish lingered about the place. Wooden filing cabinets stood around

the walls; from their labels, Harry could see that they contained de-
tails of every pupil Filch had ever punished. Fred and George

Weasley had an entire drawer to themselves. A highly polished col-
lection of chains and manacles hung on the wall behind Filch’s desk.

It was common knowledge that he was always begging Dumbledore
to let him suspend students by their ankles from the ceiling.
Filch grabbed a quill from a pot on his desk and began shuffling
around looking for parchment.

CHAPTER EIGHT

 126 

“Dung,” he muttered furiously, “great sizzling dragon bogies . . .
frog brains . . . rat intestines . . . I’ve had enough of it . . . make an
example . . . where’s the form . . . yes . . .”
He retrieved a large roll of parchment from his desk drawer and
stretched it out in front of him, dipping his long black quill into the
ink pot.
“Name . . . Harry Potter. Crime . . .”
“It was only a bit of mud!” said Harry.
“It’s only a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me it’s an extra hour
scrubbing!” shouted Filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end
of his bulbous nose. “Crime . . . befouling the castle . . . suggested
sentence . . .”
Dabbing at his streaming nose, Filch squinted unpleasantly at
Harry, who waited with bated breath for his sentence to fall.
But as Filch lowered his quill, there was a great BANG! on the
ceiling of the office, which made the oil lamp rattle.
“PEEVES!” Filch roared, flinging down his quill in a transport of
rage. “I’ll have you this time, I’ll have you!”
And without a backward glance at Harry, Filch ran flat-footed
from the office, Mrs. Norris streaking alongside him.
Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grinning, airborne menace
who lived to cause havoc and distress. Harry didn’t much like

Peeves, but couldn’t help feeling grateful for his timing. Hope-
fully, whatever Peeves had done (and it sounded as though he’d

wrecked something very big this time) would distract Filch from
Harry.
Thinking that he should probably wait for Filch to come back,
Harry sank into a moth-eaten chair next to the desk. There was only
one thing on it apart from his half-completed form: a large, glossy,

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 127 

purple envelope with silver lettering on the front. With a quick
glance at the door to check that Filch wasn’t on his way back, Harry
picked up the envelope and read:
KWIKSPELL

A Correspondence Course in Beginners’ Magic
Intrigued, Harry flicked the envelope open and pulled out the
sheaf of parchment inside. More curly silver writing on the front
page said:
Feel out of step in the world of modern magic? Find yourself making

excuses not to perform simple spells? Ever been taunted for your woe-
ful wandwork?

There is an answer!

Kwikspell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick-result, easy-learn course.
Hundreds of witches and wizards have benefited from the Kwikspell
method!
Madam Z. Nettles of Topsham writes:
“I had no memory for incantations and my potions were a family joke!
Now, after a Kwikspell course, I am the center of attention at parties
and friends beg for the recipe of my Scintillation Solution!”
Warlock D. J. Prod of Didsbury says:
“My wife used to sneer at my feeble charms, but one month into your
fabulous Kwikspell course and I succeeded in turning her into a yak!
Thank you, Kwikspell!”

CHAPTER EIGHT

 128 

Fascinated, Harry thumbed through the rest of the envelope’s
contents. Why on earth did Filch want a Kwikspell course? Did

this mean he wasn’t a proper wizard? Harry was just reading “Les-
son One: Holding Your Wand (Some Useful Tips)” when shuffling

footsteps outside told him Filch was coming back. Stuffing the
parchment back into the envelope, Harry threw it back onto the
desk just as the door opened.
Filch was looking triumphant.
“That vanishing cabinet was extremely valuable!” he was saying
gleefully to Mrs. Norris. “We’ll have Peeves out this time, my
sweet —”

His eyes fell on Harry and then darted to the Kwikspell enve-
lope, which, Harry realized too late, was lying two feet away from

where it had started.
Filch’s pasty face went brick red. Harry braced himself for a tidal

wave of fury. Filch hobbled across to his desk, snatched up the en-
velope, and threw it into a drawer.

“Have you — did you read — ?” he sputtered.
“No,” Harry lied quickly.
Filch’s knobbly hands were twisting together.
“If I thought you’d read my private — not that it’s mine — for a
friend — be that as it may — however —”

Harry was staring at him, alarmed; Filch had never looked mad-
der. His eyes were popping, a tic was going in one of his pouchy

cheeks, and the tartan scarf didn’t help.
“Very well — go — and don’t breathe a word — not that —

however, if you didn’t read — go now, I have to write up Peeves’ re-
port — go —”

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 129 

Amazed at his luck, Harry sped out of the office, up the corridor,

and back upstairs. To escape from Filch’s office without punish-
ment was probably some kind of school record.

“Harry! Harry! Did it work?”
Nearly Headless Nick came gliding out of a classroom. Behind

him, Harry could see the wreckage of a large black-and-gold cabi-
net that appeared to have been dropped from a great height.

“I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filch’s office,” said
Nick eagerly. “Thought it might distract him —”
“Was that you?” said Harry gratefully. “Yeah, it worked, I didn’t
even get detention. Thanks, Nick!”
They set off up the corridor together. Nearly Headless Nick,
Harry noticed, was still holding Sir Patrick’s rejection letter.

“I wish there was something I could do for you about the Head-
less Hunt,” Harry said.

Nearly Headless Nick stopped in his tracks and Harry walked
right through him. He wished he hadn’t; it was like stepping through
an icy shower.

“But there is something you could do for me,” said Nick ex-
citedly. “Harry — would I be asking too much — but no, you

wouldn’t want —”
“What is it?” said Harry.
“Well, this Halloween will be my five hundredth deathday,” said
Nearly Headless Nick, drawing himself up and looking dignified.
“Oh,” said Harry, not sure whether he should look sorry or
happy about this. “Right.”
“I’m holding a party down in one of the roomier dungeons.
Friends will be coming from all over the country. It would be such

CHAPTER EIGHT

 130 

an honor if you would attend. Mr. Weasley and Miss Granger
would be most welcome, too, of course — but I daresay you’d
rather go to the school feast?” He watched Harry on tenterhooks.
“No,” said Harry quickly, “I’ll come —”
“My dear boy! Harry Potter, at my deathday party! And” —
he hesitated, looking excited — “do you think you could possibly
mention to Sir Patrick how very frightening and impressive you
find me?”
“Of — of course,” said Harry.
Nearly Headless Nick beamed at him.
“A deathday party?” said Hermione keenly when Harry had
changed at last and joined her and Ron in the common room. “I
bet there aren’t many living people who can say they’ve been to one
of those — it’ll be fascinating!”
“Why would anyone want to celebrate the day they died?”
said Ron, who was halfway through his Potions homework and
grumpy. “Sounds dead depressing to me. . . .”
Rain was still lashing the windows, which were now inky black,
but inside all looked bright and cheerful. The firelight glowed over
the countless squashy armchairs where people sat reading, talking,
doing homework or, in the case of Fred and George Weasley, trying
to find out what would happen if you fed a Filibuster firework to a
salamander. Fred had “rescued” the brilliant orange, fire-dwelling
lizard from a Care of Magical Creatures class and it was now
smoldering gently on a table surrounded by a knot of curious
people.
Harry was at the point of telling Ron and Hermione about Filch

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 131 

and the Kwikspell course when the salamander suddenly whizzed
into the air, emitting loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wildly
round the room. The sight of Percy bellowing himself hoarse at

Fred and George, the spectacular display of tangerine stars shower-
ing from the salamander’s mouth, and its escape into the fire, with

accompanying explosions, drove both Filch and the Kwikspell en-
velope from Harry’s mind.

By the time Halloween arrived, Harry was regretting his rash
promise to go to the deathday party. The rest of the school was
happily anticipating their Halloween feast; the Great Hall had been
decorated with the usual live bats, Hagrid’s vast pumpkins had
been carved into lanterns large enough for three men to sit in, and

there were rumors that Dumbledore had booked a troupe of danc-
ing skeletons for the entertainment.

“A promise is a promise,” Hermione reminded Harry bossily.
“You said you’d go to the deathday party.”
So at seven o’clock, Harry, Ron, and Hermione walked straight
past the doorway to the packed Great Hall, which was glittering

invitingly with gold plates and candles, and directed their steps in-
stead toward the dungeons.

The passageway leading to Nearly Headless Nick’s party had

been lined with candles, too, though the effect was far from cheer-
ful: These were long, thin, jet-black tapers, all burning bright blue,

casting a dim, ghostly light even over their own living faces. The
temperature dropped with every step they took. As Harry shivered
and drew his robes tightly around him, he heard what sounded like
a thousand fingernails scraping an enormous blackboard.

CHAPTER EIGHT

 132 

“Is that supposed to be music?” Ron whispered. They turned a
corner and saw Nearly Headless Nick standing at a doorway hung
with black velvet drapes.
“My dear friends,” he said mournfully. “Welcome, welcome . . .
so pleased you could come. . . .”
He swept off his plumed hat and bowed them inside.
It was an incredible sight. The dungeon was full of hundreds of
pearly-white, translucent people, mostly drifting around a crowded
dance floor, waltzing to the dreadful, quavering sound of thirty

musical saws, played by an orchestra on a raised, black-draped plat-
form. A chandelier overhead blazed midnight-blue with a thou-
sand more black candles. Their breath rose in a mist before them;

it was like stepping into a freezer.
“Shall we have a look around?” Harry suggested, wanting to
warm up his feet.
“Careful not to walk through anyone,” said Ron nervously, and
they set off around the edge of the dance floor. They passed a group
of gloomy nuns, a ragged man wearing chains, and the Fat Friar,
a cheerful Hufflepuff ghost, who was talking to a knight with an
arrow sticking out of his forehead. Harry wasn’t surprised to see
that the Bloody Baron, a gaunt, staring Slytherin ghost covered
in silver bloodstains, was being given a wide berth by the other
ghosts.
“Oh, no,” said Hermione, stopping abruptly. “Turn back, turn
back, I don’t want to talk to Moaning Myrtle —”
“Who?” said Harry as they backtracked quickly.
“She haunts one of the toilets in the girls’ bathroom on the first
floor,” said Hermione.
“She haunts a toilet?”

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 133 

“Yes. It’s been out-of-order all year because she keeps having
tantrums and flooding the place. I never went in there anyway if I
could avoid it; it’s awful trying to have a pee with her wailing at
you —”
“Look, food!” said Ron.
On the other side of the dungeon was a long table, also covered
in black velvet. They approached it eagerly but next moment had
stopped in their tracks, horrified. The smell was quite disgusting.
Large, rotten fish were laid on handsome silver platters; cakes,
burned charcoal-black, were heaped on salvers; there was a great
maggoty haggis, a slab of cheese covered in furry green mold and,

in pride of place, an enormous gray cake in the shape of a tomb-
stone, with tar-like icing forming the words,

Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington
died 31st October, 1492

Harry watched, amazed, as a portly ghost approached the table,
crouched low, and walked through it, his mouth held wide so that
it passed through one of the stinking salmon.
“Can you taste it if you walk through it?” Harry asked him.
“Almost,” said the ghost sadly, and he drifted away.

“I expect they’ve let it rot to give it a stronger flavor,” said Her-
mione knowledgeably, pinching her nose and leaning closer to look

at the putrid haggis.
“Can we move? I feel sick,” said Ron.
They had barely turned around, however, when a little man
swooped suddenly from under the table and came to a halt in
midair before them.

CHAPTER EIGHT

 134 
“Hello, Peeves,” said Harry cautiously.
Unlike the ghosts around them, Peeves the Poltergeist was the

very reverse of pale and transparent. He was wearing a bright or-
ange party hat, a revolving bow tie, and a broad grin on his wide,

wicked face.

“Nibbles?” he said sweetly, offering them a bowl of peanuts cov-
ered in fungus.

“No thanks,” said Hermione.
“Heard you talking about poor Myrtle,” said Peeves, his eyes
dancing. “Rude you was about poor Myrtle.” He took a deep breath
and bellowed, “OY! MYRTLE!”
“Oh, no, Peeves, don’t tell her what I said, she’ll be really upset,”
Hermione whispered frantically. “I didn’t mean it, I don’t mind
her — er, hello, Myrtle.”
The squat ghost of a girl had glided over. She had the glummest
face Harry had ever seen, half-hidden behind lank hair and thick,
pearly spectacles.
“What?” she said sulkily.
“How are you, Myrtle?” said Hermione in a falsely bright voice.
“It’s nice to see you out of the toilet.”
Myrtle sniffed.
“Miss Granger was just talking about you —” said Peeves slyly
in Myrtle’s ear.

“Just saying — saying — how nice you look tonight,” said Her-
mione, glaring at Peeves.

Myrtle eyed Hermione suspiciously.
“You’re making fun of me,” she said, silver tears welling rapidly
in her small, see-through eyes.

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 135 

“No — honestly — didn’t I just say how nice Myrtle’s looking?”
said Hermione, nudging Harry and Ron painfully in the ribs.
“Oh, yeah —”
“She did —”
“Don’t lie to me,” Myrtle gasped, tears now flooding down her
face, while Peeves chuckled happily over her shoulder. “D’you

think I don’t know what people call me behind my back? Fat Myr-
tle! Ugly Myrtle! Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle!”

“You’ve forgotten pimply,” Peeves hissed in her ear.
Moaning Myrtle burst into anguished sobs and fled from the
dungeon. Peeves shot after her, pelting her with moldy peanuts,
yelling, “Pimply! Pimply!”
“Oh, dear,” said Hermione sadly.
Nearly Headless Nick now drifted toward them through the
crowd.
“Enjoying yourselves?”
“Oh, yes,” they lied.
“Not a bad turnout,” said Nearly Headless Nick proudly. “The
Wailing Widow came all the way up from Kent. . . . It’s nearly time
for my speech, I’d better go and warn the orchestra. . . .”
The orchestra, however, stopped playing at that very moment.
They, and everyone else in the dungeon, fell silent, looking around
in excitement, as a hunting horn sounded.
“Oh, here we go,” said Nearly Headless Nick bitterly.
Through the dungeon wall burst a dozen ghost horses, each
ridden by a headless horseman. The assembly clapped wildly;
Harry started to clap, too, but stopped quickly at the sight of Nick’s
face.

CHAPTER EIGHT

 136 

The horses galloped into the middle of the dance floor and
halted, rearing and plunging. At the front of the pack was a large

ghost who held his bearded head under his arm, from which posi-
tion he was blowing the horn. The ghost leapt down, lifted his

head high in the air so he could see over the crowd (everyone
laughed), and strode over to Nearly Headless Nick, squashing his
head back onto his neck.
“Nick!” he roared. “How are you? Head still hanging in there?”
He gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nearly Headless Nick on
the shoulder.
“Welcome, Patrick,” said Nick stiffly.
“Live ’uns!” said Sir Patrick, spotting Harry, Ron, and Hermione
and giving a huge, fake jump of astonishment, so that his head fell
off again (the crowd howled with laughter).
“Very amusing,” said Nearly Headless Nick darkly.
“Don’t mind Nick!” shouted Sir Patrick’s head from the floor.
“Still upset we won’t let him join the Hunt! But I mean to say —
look at the fellow —”
“I think,” said Harry hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Nick,
“Nick’s very — frightening and — er —”
“Ha!” yelled Sir Patrick’s head. “Bet he asked you to say that!”
“If I could have everyone’s attention, it’s time for my speech!”
said Nearly Headless Nick loudly, striding toward the podium and
climbing into an icy blue spotlight.
“My late lamented lords, ladies, and gentlemen, it is my great
sorrow . . .”
But nobody heard much more. Sir Patrick and the rest of the
Headless Hunt had just started a game of Head Hockey and the
crowd were turning to watch. Nearly Headless Nick tried vainly to

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 137 

recapture his audience, but gave up as Sir Patrick’s head went sail-
ing past him to loud cheers.

Harry was very cold by now, not to mention hungry.

“I can’t stand much more of this,” Ron muttered, his teeth chat-
tering, as the orchestra ground back into action and the ghosts

swept back onto the dance floor.
“Let’s go,” Harry agreed.
They backed toward the door, nodding and beaming at anyone
who looked at them, and a minute later were hurrying back up the
passageway full of black candles.

“Pudding might not be finished yet,” said Ron hopefully, lead-
ing the way toward the steps to the entrance hall.

And then Harry heard it.
“. . . rip . . . tear . . . kill . . .”
It was the same voice, the same cold, murderous voice he had
heard in Lockhart’s office.
He stumbled to a halt, clutching at the stone wall, listening with
all his might, looking around, squinting up and down the dimly lit
passageway.
“Harry, what’re you — ?”
“It’s that voice again — shut up a minute —”
“. . . soo hungry . . . for so long . . .”
“Listen!” said Harry urgently, and Ron and Hermione froze,
watching him.
“. . . kill . . . time to kill . . .”
The voice was growing fainter. Harry was sure it was moving
away — moving upward. A mixture of fear and excitement gripped

him as he stared at the dark ceiling; how could it be moving up-
ward? Was it a phantom, to whom stone ceilings didn’t matter?

CHAPTER EIGHT

 138 

“This way,” he shouted, and he began to run, up the stairs, into
the entrance hall. It was no good hoping to hear anything here, the
babble of talk from the Halloween feast was echoing out of the
Great Hall. Harry sprinted up the marble staircase to the first floor,
Ron and Hermione clattering behind him.
“Harry, what’re we —”
“SHH!”
Harry strained his ears. Distantly, from the floor above, and
growing fainter still, he heard the voice: “. . . I smell blood. . . . I
SMELL BLOOD!”
His stomach lurched —
“It’s going to kill someone!” he shouted, and ignoring Ron’s and
Hermione’s bewildered faces, he ran up the next flight of steps
three at a time, trying to listen over his own pounding footsteps —
Harry hurtled around the whole of the second floor, Ron and
Hermione panting behind him, not stopping until they turned a
corner into the last, deserted passage.
“Harry, what was that all about?” said Ron, wiping sweat off his
face. “I couldn’t hear anything. . . .”
But Hermione gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the corridor.
“Look!”
Something was shining on the wall ahead. They approached
slowly, squinting through the darkness. Foot-high words had been
daubed on the wall between two windows, shimmering in the light
cast by the flaming torches.

THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN
OPENED. ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE.

THE DEATHDAY PARTY

 139 

“What’s that thing — hanging underneath?” said Ron, a slight
quiver in his voice.
As they edged nearer, Harry almost slipped — there was a large
puddle of water on the floor; Ron and Hermione grabbed him, and

they inched toward the message, eyes fixed on a dark shadow be-
neath it. All three of them realized what it was at once, and leapt

backward with a splash.
Mrs. Norris, the caretaker’s cat, was hanging by her tail from the
torch bracket. She was stiff as a board, her eyes wide and staring.
For a few seconds, they didn’t move. Then Ron said, “Let’s get
out of here.”
“Shouldn’t we try and help —” Harry began awkwardly.
“Trust me,” said Ron. “We don’t want to be found here.”
But it was too late. A rumble, as though of distant thunder, told
them that the feast had just ended. From either end of the corridor
where they stood came the sound of hundreds of feet climbing the
stairs, and the loud, happy talk of well-fed people; next moment,
students were crashing into the passage from both ends.
The chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as the people in
front spotted the hanging cat. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood
alone, in the middle of the corridor, as silence fell among the mass
of students pressing forward to see the grisly sight.
Then someone shouted through the quiet.
“Enemies of the Heir, beware! You’ll be next, Mudbloods!”
It was Draco Malfoy. He had pushed to the front of the crowd,
his cold eyes alive, his usually bloodless face flushed, as he grinned
at the sight of the hanging, immobile cat.

C H A P T E R N I N E

 140 

THE WRITING
ON THE WALL

hat’s going on here? What’s going on?”
Attracted no doubt by Malfoy’s shout, Argus Filch
came shouldering his way through the crowd. Then he saw Mrs.
Norris and fell back, clutching his face in horror.
“My cat! My cat! What’s happened to Mrs. Norris?” he shrieked.
And his popping eyes fell on Harry.
“You!” he screeched. “You! You’ve murdered my cat! You’ve killed
her! I’ll kill you! I’ll —”
“Argus!”
Dumbledore had arrived on the scene, followed by a number of
other teachers. In seconds, he had swept past Harry, Ron, and
Hermione and detached Mrs. Norris from the torch bracket.
“Come with me, Argus,” he said to Filch. “You, too, Mr. Potter,
Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger.”
Lockhart stepped forward eagerly.
W

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 141 

“My office is nearest, Headmaster — just upstairs — please feel
free —”
“Thank you, Gilderoy,” said Dumbledore.

The silent crowd parted to let them pass. Lockhart, looking ex-
cited and important, hurried after Dumbledore; so did Professors

McGonagall and Snape.
As they entered Lockhart’s darkened office there was a flurry of
movement across the walls; Harry saw several of the Lockharts in
the pictures dodging out of sight, their hair in rollers. The real
Lockhart lit the candles on his desk and stood back. Dumbledore
laid Mrs. Norris on the polished surface and began to examine her.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged tense looks and sank into
chairs outside the pool of candlelight, watching.
The tip of Dumbledore’s long, crooked nose was barely an inch
from Mrs. Norris’s fur. He was looking at her closely through his
half-moon spectacles, his long fingers gently prodding and poking.
Professor McGonagall was bent almost as close, her eyes narrowed.

Snape loomed behind them, half in shadow, wearing a most pecu-
liar expression: It was as though he was trying hard not to smile.

And Lockhart was hovering around all of them, making sugges-
tions.

“It was definitely a curse that killed her — probably the Trans-
mogrifian Torture — I’ve seen it used many times, so unlucky I

wasn’t there, I know the very countercurse that would have saved
her. . . .”
Lockhart’s comments were punctuated by Filch’s dry, racking
sobs. He was slumped in a chair by the desk, unable to look at Mrs.
Norris, his face in his hands. Much as he detested Filch, Harry

CHAPTER NINE

 142 

couldn’t help feeling a bit sorry for him, though not nearly as sorry
as he felt for himself. If Dumbledore believed Filch, he would be
expelled for sure.
Dumbledore was now muttering strange words under his breath
and tapping Mrs. Norris with his wand but nothing happened: She
continued to look as though she had been recently stuffed.

“. . . I remember something very similar happening in Oua-
gadogou,” said Lockhart, “a series of attacks, the full story’s in my

autobiography, I was able to provide the townsfolk with various
amulets, which cleared the matter up at once. . . .”
The photographs of Lockhart on the walls were all nodding in
agreement as he talked. One of them had forgotten to remove his
hair net.
At last Dumbledore straightened up.
“She’s not dead, Argus,” he said softly.

Lockhart stopped abruptly in the middle of counting the num-
ber of murders he had prevented.

“Not dead?” choked Filch, looking through his fingers at Mrs.
Norris. “But why’s she all — all stiff and frozen?”
“She has been Petrified,” said Dumbledore (“Ah! I thought so!”
said Lockhart). “But how, I cannot say. . . .”
“Ask him!” shrieked Filch, turning his blotched and tearstained
face to Harry.
“No second year could have done this,” said Dumbledore firmly.
“It would take Dark Magic of the most advanced —”
“He did it, he did it!” Filch spat, his pouchy face purpling. “You
saw what he wrote on the wall! He found — in my office — he
knows I’m a — I’m a —” Filch’s face worked horribly. “He knows
I’m a Squib!” he finished.

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 143 

“I never touched Mrs. Norris!” Harry said loudly, uncomfortably
aware of everyone looking at him, including all the Lockharts on
the walls. “And I don’t even know what a Squib is.”
“Rubbish!” snarled Filch. “He saw my Kwikspell letter!”
“If I might speak, Headmaster,” said Snape from the shadows,
and Harry’s sense of foreboding increased; he was sure nothing
Snape had to say was going to do him any good.
“Potter and his friends may have simply been in the wrong place
at the wrong time,” he said, a slight sneer curling his mouth as

though he doubted it. “But we do have a set of suspicious circum-
stances here. Why was he in the upstairs corridor at all? Why wasn’t

he at the Halloween feast?”
Harry, Ron and Hermione all launched into an explanation
about the deathday party. “. . . there were hundreds of ghosts,
they’ll tell you we were there —”
“But why not join the feast afterward?” said Snape, his black eyes
glittering in the candlelight. “Why go up to that corridor?”
Ron and Hermione looked at Harry.
“Because — because —” Harry said, his heart thumping very
fast; something told him it would sound very far-fetched if he
told them he had been led there by a bodiless voice no one but he
could hear, “because we were tired and wanted to go to bed,” he
said.

“Without any supper?” said Snape, a triumphant smile flicker-
ing across his gaunt face. “I didn’t think ghosts provided food fit for

living people at their parties.”
“We weren’t hungry,” said Ron loudly as his stomach gave a huge
rumble.
Snape’s nasty smile widened.

CHAPTER NINE

 144 

“I suggest, Headmaster, that Potter is not being entirely truth-
ful,” he said. “It might be a good idea if he were deprived of certain

privileges until he is ready to tell us the whole story. I personally
feel he should be taken off the Gryffindor Quidditch team until he
is ready to be honest.”
“Really, Severus,” said Professor McGonagall sharply, “I see no
reason to stop the boy playing Quidditch. This cat wasn’t hit over
the head with a broomstick. There is no evidence at all that Potter
has done anything wrong.”
Dumbledore was giving Harry a searching look. His twinkling
light-blue gaze made Harry feel as though he were being X-rayed.
“Innocent until proven guilty, Severus,” he said firmly.
Snape looked furious. So did Filch.
“My cat has been Petrified!” he shrieked, his eyes popping. “I
want to see some punishment!”
“We will be able to cure her, Argus,” said Dumbledore patiently.
“Professer Sprout recently managed to procure some Mandrakes.
As soon as they have reached their full size, I will have a potion
made that will revive Mrs. Norris.”

“I’ll make it,” Lockhart butted in. “I must have done it a hun-
dred times. I could whip up a Mandrake Restorative Draught in

my sleep —”
“Excuse me,” said Snape icily. “But I believe I am the Potions
master at this school.”
There was a very awkward pause.
“You may go,” Dumbledore said to Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
They went, as quickly as they could without actually running.
When they were a floor up from Lockhart’s office, they turned into

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 145 

an empty classroom and closed the door quietly behind them.
Harry squinted at his friends’ darkened faces.
“D’you think I should have told them about that voice I heard?”
“No,” said Ron, without hesitation. “Hearing voices no one else
can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the wizarding world.”
Something in Ron’s voice made Harry ask, “You do believe me,
don’t you?”
“ ’Course I do,” said Ron quickly. “But — you must admit it’s
weird. . . .”
“I know it’s weird,” said Harry. “The whole thing’s weird.
What was that writing on the wall about? ‘The Chamber Has Been
Opened’. . . . What’s that supposed to mean?”
“You know, it rings a sort of bell,” said Ron slowly. “I think
someone told me a story about a secret chamber at Hogwarts
once . . . might’ve been Bill. . . .”
“And what on earth’s a Squib?” said Harry.
To his surprise, Ron stifled a snigger.
“Well — it’s not funny really — but as it’s Filch,” he said. “A
Squib is someone who was born into a wizarding family but hasn’t

got any magic powers. Kind of the opposite of Muggle-born wiz-
ards, but Squibs are quite unusual. If Filch’s trying to learn magic

from a Kwikspell course, I reckon he must be a Squib. It would ex-
plain a lot. Like why he hates students so much.” Ron gave a satis-
fied smile. “He’s bitter.”

A clock chimed somewhere.
“Midnight,” said Harry. “We’d better get to bed before Snape
comes along and tries to frame us for something else.”

* * *

CHAPTER NINE

 146 

For a few days, the school could talk of little else but the attack on
Mrs. Norris. Filch kept it fresh in everyone’s minds by pacing the

spot where she had been attacked, as though he thought the at-
tacker might come back. Harry had seen him scrubbing the mes-
sage on the wall with Mrs. Skower’s All-Purpose Magical Mess

Remover, but to no effect; the words still gleamed as brightly as
ever on the stone. When Filch wasn’t guarding the scene of the
crime, he was skulking red-eyed through the corridors, lunging out
at unsuspecting students and trying to put them in detention for
things like “breathing loudly” and “looking happy.”

Ginny Weasley seemed very disturbed by Mrs. Norris’s fate. Ac-
cording to Ron, she was a great cat lover.

“But you haven’t really got to know Mrs. Norris,” Ron told her
bracingly. “Honestly, we’re much better off without her.” Ginny’s
lip trembled. “Stuff like this doesn’t often happen at Hogwarts,”
Ron assured her. “They’ll catch the maniac who did it and have
him out of here in no time. I just hope he’s got time to Petrify Filch
before he’s expelled. I’m only joking —” Ron added hastily as
Ginny blanched.
The attack had also had an effect on Hermione. It was quite
usual for Hermione to spend a lot of time reading, but she was now

doing almost nothing else. Nor could Harry and Ron get much re-
sponse from her when they asked what she was up to, and not un-
til the following Wednesday did they find out.

Harry had been held back in Potions, where Snape had made
him stay behind to scrape tubeworms off the desks. After a hurried

lunch, he went upstairs to meet Ron in the library, and saw Jus-
tin Finch-Fletchley, the Hufflepuff boy from Herbology, coming

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 147 

toward him. Harry had just opened his mouth to say hello when

Justin caught sight of him, turned abruptly, and sped off in the op-
posite direction.

Harry found Ron at the back of the library, measuring his His-
tory of Magic homework. Professor Binns had asked for a three-
foot-long composition on “The Medieval Assembly of European

Wizards.”

“I don’t believe it, I’m still eight inches short. . . .” said Ron fu-
riously, letting go of his parchment, which sprang back into a roll.

“And Hermione’s done four feet seven inches and her writing’s
tiny.”

“Where is she?” asked Harry, grabbing the tape measure and un-
rolling his own homework.

“Somewhere over there,” said Ron, pointing along the shelves.
“Looking for another book. I think she’s trying to read the whole
library before Christmas.”
Harry told Ron about Justin Finch-Fletchley running away from
him.
“Dunno why you care. I thought he was a bit of an idiot,” said
Ron, scribbling away, making his writing as large as possible. “All
that junk about Lockhart being so great —”
Hermione emerged from between the bookshelves. She looked
irritable and at last seemed ready to talk to them.
“All the copies of Hogwarts, A History have been taken out,” she
said, sitting down next to Harry and Ron. “And there’s a two-week
waiting list. I wish I hadn’t left my copy at home, but I couldn’t fit
it in my trunk with all the Lockhart books.”
“Why do you want it?” said Harry.

CHAPTER NINE

 148 

“The same reason everyone else wants it,” said Hermione, “to
read up on the legend of the Chamber of Secrets.”
“What’s that?” said Harry quickly.
“That’s just it. I can’t remember,” said Hermione, biting her lip.
“And I can’t find the story anywhere else —”

“Hermione, let me read your composition,” said Ron desper-
ately, checking his watch.

“No, I won’t,” said Hermione, suddenly severe. “You’ve had ten
days to finish it —”
“I only need another two inches, come on —”
The bell rang. Ron and Hermione led the way to History of
Magic, bickering.

History of Magic was the dullest subject on their schedule. Pro-
fessor Binns, who taught it, was their only ghost teacher, and the

most exciting thing that ever happened in his classes was his enter-
ing the room through the blackboard. Ancient and shriveled, many

people said he hadn’t noticed he was dead. He had simply got up to
teach one day and left his body behind him in an armchair in front
of the staffroom fire; his routine had not varied in the slightest
since.
Today was as boring as ever. Professor Binns opened his notes
and began to read in a flat drone like an old vacuum cleaner until

nearly everyone in the class was in a deep stupor, occasionally com-
ing to long enough to copy down a name or date, then falling

asleep again. He had been speaking for half an hour when some-
thing happened that had never happened before. Hermione put up

her hand.
Professor Binns, glancing up in the middle of a deadly dull lec-

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 149 

ture on the International Warlock Convention of 1289, looked
amazed.
“Miss — er — ?”

“Granger, Professor. I was wondering if you could tell us any-
thing about the Chamber of Secrets,” said Hermione in a clear

voice.
Dean Thomas, who had been sitting with his mouth hanging
open, gazing out of the window, jerked out of his trance; Lavender

Brown’s head came up off her arms and Neville Longbottom’s el-
bow slipped off his desk.

Professor Binns blinked.
“My subject is History of Magic,” he said in his dry, wheezy
voice. “I deal with, facts, Miss Granger, not myths and legends.” He

cleared his throat with a small noise like chalk snapping and con-
tinued, “In September of that year, a subcommittee of Sardinian

sorcerers —”
He stuttered to a halt. Hermione’s hand was waving in the air
again.
“Miss Grant?”
“Please, sir, don’t legends always have a basis in fact?”
Professor Binns was looking at her in such amazement, Harry
was sure no student had ever interrupted him before, alive or dead.
“Well,” said Professor Binns slowly, “yes, one could argue that, I
suppose.” He peered at Hermione as though he had never seen a
student properly before. “However, the legend of which you speak
is such a very sensational, even ludicrous tale —”
But the whole class was now hanging on Professor Binns’s every
word. He looked dimly at them all, every face turned to his. Harry

CHAPTER NINE

 150 

could tell he was completely thrown by such an unusual show of
interest.
“Oh, very well,” he said slowly. “Let me see . . . the Chamber of
Secrets . . .
“You all know, of course, that Hogwarts was founded over a
thousand years ago — the precise date is uncertain — by the four
greatest witches and wizards of the age. The four school Houses are
named after them: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena
Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin. They built this castle together,
far from prying Muggle eyes, for it was an age when magic was
feared by common people, and witches and wizards suffered much
persecution.”
He paused, gazed blearily around the room, and continued.
“For a few years, the founders worked in harmony together,
seeking out youngsters who showed signs of magic and bringing
them to the castle to be educated. But then disagreements sprang
up between them. A rift began to grow between Slytherin and the

others. Slytherin wished to be more selective about the students ad-
mitted to Hogwarts. He believed that magical learning should be

kept within all-magic families. He disliked taking students of Mug-
gle parentage, believing them to be untrustworthy. After a while,

there was a serious argument on the subject between Slytherin and
Gryffindor, and Slytherin left the school.”
Professor Binns paused again, pursing his lips, looking like a
wrinkled old tortoise.
“Reliable historical sources tell us this much,” he said. “But these
honest facts have been obscured by the fanciful legend of the
Chamber of Secrets. The story goes that Slytherin had built a

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 151 

hidden chamber in the castle, of which the other founders knew
nothing.

“Slytherin, according to the legend, sealed the Chamber of Se-
crets so that none would be able to open it until his own true heir

arrived at the school. The heir alone would be able to unseal the
Chamber of Secrets, unleash the horror within, and use it to purge
the school of all who were unworthy to study magic.”
There was silence as he finished telling the story, but it wasn’t the
usual, sleepy silence that filled Professor Binns’s classes. There was
unease in the air as everyone continued to watch him, hoping for
more. Professor Binns looked faintly annoyed.

“The whole thing is arrant nonsense, of course,” he said. “Natu-
rally, the school has been searched for evidence of such a chamber,

many times, by the most learned witches and wizards. It does not
exist. A tale told to frighten the gullible.”
Hermione’s hand was back in the air.
“Sir — what exactly do you mean by the ‘horror within’ the
Chamber?”
“That is believed to be some sort of monster, which the Heir of
Slytherin alone can control,” said Professor Binns in his dry, reedy
voice.
The class exchanged nervous looks.

“I tell you, the thing does not exist,” said Professor Binns, shuf-
fling his notes. “There is no Chamber and no monster.”

“But, sir,” said Seamus Finnigan, “if the Chamber can only be
opened by Slytherin’s true heir, no one else would be able to find it,
would they?”
“Nonsense, O’Flaherty,” said Professor Binns in an aggravated

CHAPTER NINE

 152 

tone. “If a long succession of Hogwarts headmasters and head-
mistresses haven’t found the thing —”

“But, Professor,” piped up Parvati Patil, “you’d probably have to
use Dark Magic to open it —”
“Just because a wizard doesn’t use Dark Magic doesn’t mean he
can’t, Miss Pennyfeather,” snapped Professor Binns. “I repeat, if the
likes of Dumbledore —”

“But maybe you’ve got to be related to Slytherin, so Dumble-
dore couldn’t —” began Dean Thomas, but Professor Binns had

had enough.
“That will do,” he said sharply. “It is a myth! It does not exist!
There is not a shred of evidence that Slytherin ever built so much
as a secret broom cupboard! I regret telling you such a foolish story!

We will return, if you please, to history, to solid, believable, verifi-
able fact!”

And within five minutes, the class had sunk back into its usual
torpor.
“I always knew Salazar Slytherin was a twisted old loony,” Ron told
Harry and Hermione as they fought their way through the teeming
corridors at the end of the lesson to drop off their bags before
dinner. “But I never knew he started all this pure-blood stuff. I
wouldn’t be in his House if you paid me. Honestly, if the Sorting
Hat had tried to put me in Slytherin, I’d’ve got the train straight
back home. . . .”
Hermione nodded fervently, but Harry didn’t say anything. His
stomach had just dropped unpleasantly.
Harry had never told Ron and Hermione that the Sorting Hat

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 153 

had seriously considered putting him in Slytherin. He could re-
member, as though it were yesterday, the small voice that had spo-
ken in his ear when he’d placed the hat on his head a year before:

You could be great, you know, it’s all here in your head, and Slytherin
would help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that. . . .

But Harry, who had already heard of Slytherin House’s reputa-
tion for turning out Dark wizards, had thought desperately, Not

Slytherin! and the hat had said, Oh, well, if you’re sure . . . better be
Gryffindor. . . .
As they were shunted along in the throng, Colin Creevey went
past.
“Hiya, Harry!”
“Hullo, Colin,” said Harry automatically.
“Harry — Harry — a boy in my class has been saying you’re —”
But Colin was so small he couldn’t fight against the tide of
people bearing him toward the Great Hall; they heard him squeak,
“See you, Harry!” and he was gone.

“What’s a boy in his class saying about you?” Hermione won-
dered.

“That I’m Slytherin’s heir, I expect,” said Harry, his stomach
dropping another inch or so as he suddenly remembered the way
Justin Finch-Fletchley had run away from him at lunchtime.
“People here’ll believe anything,” said Ron in disgust.

The crowd thinned and they were able to climb the next stair-
case without difficulty.

“D’you really think there’s a Chamber of Secrets?” Ron asked
Hermione.
“I don’t know,” she said, frowning. “Dumbledore couldn’t cure

CHAPTER NINE

 154 

Mrs. Norris, and that makes me think that whatever attacked her
might not be — well — human.”
As she spoke, they turned a corner and found themselves at the
end of the very corridor where the attack had happened. They
stopped and looked. The scene was just as it had been that night,
except that there was no stiff cat hanging from the torch bracket,
and an empty chair stood against the wall bearing the message
“The Chamber of Secrets Has Been Opened.”
“That’s where Filch has been keeping guard,” Ron muttered.
They looked at each other. The corridor was deserted.
“Can’t hurt to have a poke around,” said Harry, dropping his
bag and getting to his hands and knees so that he could crawl
along, searching for clues.
“Scorch marks!” he said. “Here — and here —”
“Come and look at this!” said Hermione. “This is funny. . . .”
Harry got up and crossed to the window next to the message
on the wall. Hermione was pointing at the topmost pane, where
around twenty spiders were scuttling, apparently fighting to get
through a small crack. A long, silvery thread was dangling like a
rope, as though they had all climbed it in their hurry to get outside.

“Have you ever seen spiders act like that?” said Hermione won-
deringly.

“No,” said Harry, “have you, Ron? Ron?”
He looked over his shoulder. Ron was standing well back and
seemed to be fighting the impulse to run.
“What’s up?” said Harry.
“I — don’t — like — spiders,” said Ron tensely.
“I never knew that,” said Hermione, looking at Ron in surprise.
“You’ve used spiders in Potions loads of times. . . .”

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 155 

“I don’t mind them dead,” said Ron, who was carefully look-
ing anywhere but at the window. “I just don’t like the way they

move. . . .”
Hermione giggled.
“It’s not funny,” said Ron, fiercely. “If you must know, when I
was three, Fred turned my — my teddy bear into a great big filthy
spider because I broke his toy broomstick. . . . You wouldn’t like
them either if you’d been holding your bear and suddenly it had
too many legs and . . .”
He broke off, shuddering. Hermione was obviously still trying
not to laugh. Feeling they had better get off the subject, Harry said,
“Remember all that water on the floor? Where did that come from?
Someone’s mopped it up.”
“It was about here,” said Ron, recovering himself to walk a few
paces past Filch’s chair and pointing. “Level with this door.”
He reached for the brass doorknob but suddenly withdrew his
hand as though he’d been burned.
“What’s the matter?” said Harry.
“Can’t go in there,” said Ron gruffly. “That’s a girls’ toilet.”
“Oh, Ron, there won’t be anyone in there,” said Hermione,
standing up and coming over. “That’s Moaning Myrtle’s place.
Come on, let’s have a look.”
And ignoring the large out of order sign, she opened the door.
It was the gloomiest, most depressing bathroom Harry had ever
set foot in. Under a large, cracked, and spotted mirror were a row
of chipped sinks. The floor was damp and reflected the dull light

given off by the stubs of a few candles, burning low in their hold-
ers; the wooden doors to the stalls were flaking and scratched and

one of them was dangling off its hinges.

CHAPTER NINE

 156 

Hermione put her fingers to her lips and set off toward the end
stall. When she reached it she said, “Hello, Myrtle, how are you?”
Harry and Ron went to look. Moaning Myrtle was floating above
the tank of the toilet, picking a spot on her chin.

“This is a girls’ bathroom,” she said, eyeing Ron and Harry sus-
piciously. “They’re not girls.”

“No,” Hermione agreed. “I just wanted to show them how —
er — nice it is in here.”
She waved vaguely at the dirty old mirror and the damp floor.
“Ask her if she saw anything,” Harry mouthed at Hermione.
“What are you whispering?” said Myrtle, staring at him.
“Nothing,” said Harry quickly. “We wanted to ask —”
“I wish people would stop talking behind my back!” said Myrtle,
in a voice choked with tears. “I do have feelings, you know, even if
I am dead —”
“Myrtle, no one wants to upset you,” said Hermione. “Harry
only —”
“No one wants to upset me! That’s a good one!” howled Myrtle.
“My life was nothing but misery at this place and now people come
along ruining my death!”
“We wanted to ask you if you’ve seen anything funny lately,”
said Hermione quickly. “Because a cat was attacked right outside
your front door on Halloween.”
“Did you see anyone near here that night?” said Harry.
“I wasn’t paying attention,” said Myrtle dramatically. “Peeves
upset me so much I came in here and tried to kill myself. Then, of
course, I remembered that I’m — that I’m —”
“Already dead,” said Ron helpfully.

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 157 

Myrtle gave a tragic sob, rose up in the air, turned over, and
dived headfirst into the toilet, splashing water all over them and
vanishing from sight, although from the direction of her muffled
sobs, she had come to rest somewhere in the U-bend.
Harry and Ron stood with their mouths open, but Hermione
shrugged wearily and said, “Honestly, that was almost cheerful for
Myrtle. . . . Come on, let’s go.”
Harry had barely closed the door on Myrtle’s gurgling sobs when
a loud voice made all three of them jump.
“RON!”
Percy Weasley had stopped dead at the head of the stairs, prefect
badge agleam, an expression of complete shock on his face.
“That’s a girls’ bathroom!” he gasped. “What were you — ?”
“Just having a look around,” Ron shrugged. “Clues, you
know —”
Percy swelled in a manner that reminded Harry forcefully of
Mrs. Weasley.
“Get — away — from — there —” Percy said, striding toward
them and starting to bustle them along, flapping his arms. “Don’t
you care what this looks like? Coming back here while everyone’s at
dinner —”
“Why shouldn’t we be here?” said Ron hotly, stopping short and
glaring at Percy. “Listen, we never laid a finger on that cat!”
“That’s what I told Ginny,” said Percy fiercely, “but she still
seems to think you’re going to be expelled, I’ve never seen her so
upset, crying her eyes out, you might think of her, all the first years
are thoroughly overexcited by this business —”
“You don’t care about Ginny,” said Ron, whose ears were now

CHAPTER NINE

 158 

reddening. “You’re just worried I’m going to mess up your chances
of being Head Boy —”
“Five points from Gryffindor!” Percy said tersely, fingering his

prefect badge. “And I hope it teaches you a lesson! No more detec-
tive work, or I’ll write to Mum!”

And he strode off, the back of his neck as red as Ron’s ears.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione chose seats as far as possible from Percy

in the common room that night. Ron was still in a very bad tem-
per and kept blotting his Charms homework. When he reached

absently for his wand to remove the smudges, it ignited the parch-
ment. Fuming almost as much as his homework, Ron slammed

The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2 shut. To Harry’s surprise,
Hermione followed suit.
“Who can it be, though?” she said in a quiet voice, as though
continuing a conversation they had just been having. “Who’d want
to frighten all the Squibs and Muggle-borns out of Hogwarts?”
“Let’s think,” said Ron in mock puzzlement. “Who do we know
who thinks Muggle-borns are scum?”
He looked at Hermione. Hermione looked back, unconvinced.
“If you’re talking about Malfoy —”
“Of course I am!” said Ron. “You heard him — ‘You’ll be next,
Mudbloods!’ — come on, you’ve only got to look at his foul rat face
to know it’s him —”
“Malfoy, the Heir of Slytherin?” said Hermione skeptically.
“Look at his family,” said Harry, closing his books, too. “The
whole lot of them have been in Slytherin; he’s always boasting
about it. They could easily be Slytherin’s descendants. His father’s
definitely evil enough.”

THE WRITING ON THE WALL

 159 

“They could’ve had the key to the Chamber of Secrets for cen-
turies!” said Ron. “Handing it down, father to son. . . .”

“Well,” said Hermione cautiously, “I suppose it’s possible. . . .”
“But how do we prove it?” said Harry darkly.
“There might be a way,” said Hermione slowly, dropping her
voice still further with a quick glance across the room at Percy. “Of
course, it would be difficult. And dangerous, very dangerous. We’d
be breaking about fifty school rules, I expect —”
“If, in a month or so, you feel like explaining, you will let us
know, won’t you?” said Ron irritably.
“All right,” said Hermione coldly. “What we’d need to do is to

get inside the Slytherin common room and ask Malfoy a few ques-
tions without him realizing it’s us.”

“But that’s impossible,” Harry said as Ron laughed.
“No, it’s not,” said Hermione. “All we’d need would be some
Polyjuice Potion.”
“What’s that?” said Ron and Harry together.
“Snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago —”

“D’you think we’ve got nothing better to do in Potions than lis-
ten to Snape?” muttered Ron.

“It transforms you into somebody else. Think about it! We could
change into three of the Slytherins. No one would know it was us.
Malfoy would probably tell us anything. He’s probably boasting
about it in the Slytherin common room right now, if only we could
hear him.”
“This Polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,” said Ron,
frowning. “What if we were stuck looking like three of the
Slytherins forever?”
“It wears off after a while,” said Hermione, waving her hand

CHAPTER NINE

 160 

impatiently. “But getting hold of the recipe will be very difficult.
Snape said it was in a book called Moste Potente Potions and it’s
bound to be in the Restricted Section of the library.”
There was only one way to get out a book from the Restricted
Section: You needed a signed note of permission from a teacher.
“Hard to see why we’d want the book, really,” said Ron, “if we
weren’t going to try and make one of the potions.”
“I think,” said Hermione, “that if we made it sound as though
we were just interested in the theory, we might stand a chance. . . .”
“Oh, come on, no teacher’s going to fall for that,” said Ron.
“They’d have to be really thick. . . .”

C H A P T E R T E N

 161 

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

ince the disastrous episode of the pixies, Professor Lockhart
had not brought live creatures to class. Instead, he read passages
from his books to them, and sometimes reenacted some of the
more dramatic bits. He usually picked Harry to help him with

these reconstructions; so far, Harry had been forced to play a sim-
ple Transylvanian villager whom Lockhart had cured of a Babbling

Curse, a yeti with a head cold, and a vampire who had been unable
to eat anything except lettuce since Lockhart had dealt with him.
Harry was hauled to the front of the class during their very next
Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson, this time acting a werewolf.
If he hadn’t had a very good reason for keeping Lockhart in a good
mood, he would have refused to do it.
“Nice loud howl, Harry — exactly — and then, if you’ll believe
it, I pounced — like this — slammed him to the floor — thus —
with one hand, I managed to hold him down — with my other, I
S

CHAPTER TEN

 162 

put my wand to his throat — I then screwed up my remain-
ing strength and performed the immensely complex Homorphus

Charm — he let out a piteous moan — go on, Harry — higher
than that — good — the fur vanished — the fangs shrank — and
he turned back into a man. Simple, yet effective — and another
village will remember me forever as the hero who delivered them
from the monthly terror of werewolf attacks.”
The bell rang and Lockhart got to his feet.
“Homework — compose a poem about my defeat of the Wagga
Wagga Werewolf! Signed copies of Magical Me to the author of the
best one!”
The class began to leave. Harry returned to the back of the
room, where Ron and Hermione were waiting.
“Ready?” Harry muttered.
“Wait till everyone’s gone,” said Hermione nervously. “All
right . . .”
She approached Lockhart’s desk, a piece of paper clutched tightly
in her hand, Harry and Ron right behind her.
“Er — Professor Lockhart?” Hermione stammered. “I wanted

to — to get this book out of the library. Just for background read-
ing.” She held out the piece of paper, her hand shaking slightly.

“But the thing is, it’s in the Restricted Section of the library, so I

need a teacher to sign for it — I’m sure it would help me under-
stand what you say in Gadding with Ghouls about slow-acting ven-
oms —”

“Ah, Gadding with Ghouls!” said Lockhart, taking the note from
Hermione and smiling widely at her. “Possibly my very favorite
book. You enjoyed it?”

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 163 

“Oh, yes,” said Hermione eagerly. “So clever, the way you
trapped that last one with the tea-strainer —”
“Well, I’m sure no one will mind me giving the best student of
the year a little extra help,” said Lockhart warmly, and he pulled out
an enormous peacock quill. “Yes, nice, isn’t it?” he said, misreading
the revolted look on Ron’s face. “I usually save it for book signings.”
He scrawled an enormous loopy signature on the note and
handed it back to Hermione.
“So, Harry,” said Lockhart, while Hermione folded the note
with fumbling fingers and slipped it into her bag. “Tomorrow’s the
first Quidditch match of the season, I believe? Gryffindor against
Slytherin, is it not? I hear you’re a useful player. I was a Seeker, too.
I was asked to try for the National Squad, but preferred to dedicate
my life to the eradication of the Dark Forces. Still, if ever you feel
the need for a little private training, don’t hesitate to ask. Always
happy to pass on my expertise to less able players. . . .”
Harry made an indistinct noise in his throat and then hurried
off after Ron and Hermione.
“I don’t believe it,” he said as the three of them examined the
signature on the note. “He didn’t even look at the book we wanted.”
“That’s because he’s a brainless git,” said Ron. “But who cares,
we’ve got what we needed —”
“He is not a brainless git,” said Hermione shrilly as they half ran
toward the library.
“Just because he said you were the best student of the year —”
They dropped their voices as they entered the muffled stillness
of the library. Madam Pince, the librarian, was a thin, irritable
woman who looked like an underfed vulture.

CHAPTER TEN

 164 

“Moste Potente Potions?” she repeated suspiciously, trying to take
the note from Hermione; but Hermione wouldn’t let go.
“I was wondering if I could keep it,” she said breathlessly.
“Oh, come on,” said Ron, wrenching it from her grasp and
thrusting it at Madam Pince. “We’ll get you another autograph.
Lockhart’ll sign anything if it stands still long enough.”

Madam Pince held the note up to the light, as though deter-
mined to detect a forgery, but it passed the test. She stalked away

between the lofty shelves and returned several minutes later carry-
ing a large and moldy-looking book. Hermione put it carefully into

her bag and they left, trying not to walk too quickly or look too
guilty.
Five minutes later, they were barricaded in Moaning Myrtle’s
out-of-order bathroom once again. Hermione had overridden Ron’s
objections by pointing out that it was the last place anyone in their
right minds would go, so they were guaranteed some privacy.

Moaning Myrtle was crying noisily in her stall, but they were ig-
noring her, and she them.

Hermione opened Moste Potente Potions carefully, and the three
of them bent over the damp-spotted pages. It was clear from a

glance why it belonged in the Restricted Section. Some of the po-
tions had effects almost too gruesome to think about, and there

were some very unpleasant illustrations, which included a man
who seemed to have been turned inside out and a witch sprouting
several extra pairs of arms out of her head.
“Here it is,” said Hermione excitedly as she found the page
headed The Polyjuice Potion. It was decorated with drawings of
people halfway through transforming into other people. Harry sin-

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 165 

cerely hoped the artist had imagined the looks of intense pain on
their faces.
“This is the most complicated potion I’ve ever seen,” said
Hermione as they scanned the recipe. “Lacewing flies, leeches,
fluxweed, and knotgrass,” she murmured, running her finger down
the list of ingredients. “Well, they’re easy enough, they’re in the
student store-cupboard, we can help ourselves. . . . Oooh, look,
powdered horn of a bicorn — don’t know where we’re going to get
that — shredded skin of a boomslang — that’ll be tricky, too —
and of course a bit of whoever we want to change into.”
“Excuse me?” said Ron sharply. “What d’you mean, a bit of
whoever we’re changing into? I’m drinking nothing with Crabbe’s
toenails in it —”
Hermione continued as though she hadn’t heard him.
“We don’t have to worry about that yet, though, because we add
those bits last. . . .”
Ron turned, speechless, to Harry, who had another worry.

“D’you realize how much we’re going to have to steal, Her-
mione? Shredded skin of a boomslang, that’s definitely not in the

students’ cupboard. What’re we going to do, break into Snape’s pri-
vate stores? I don’t know if this is a good idea. . . .”

Hermione shut the book with a snap.
“Well, if you two are going to chicken out, fine,” she said. There
were bright pink patches on her cheeks and her eyes were brighter

than usual. “I don’t want to break rules, you know. I think threat-
ening Muggle-borns is far worse than brewing up a difficult po-
tion. But if you don’t want to find out if it’s Malfoy, I’ll go straight

to Madam Pince now and hand the book back in —”

CHAPTER TEN

 166 

“I never thought I’d see the day when you’d be persuading us
to break rules,” said Ron. “All right, we’ll do it. But not toenails,
okay?”

“How long will it take to make, anyway?” said Harry as Her-
mione, looking happier, opened the book again.

“Well, since the fluxweed has got to be picked at the full moon
and the lacewings have got to be stewed for twenty-one days . . . I’d
say it’d be ready in about a month, if we can get all the ingredients.”
“A month?” said Ron. “Malfoy could have attacked half the

Muggle-borns in the school by then!” But Hermione’s eyes nar-
rowed dangerously again, and he added swiftly, “But it’s the best

plan we’ve got, so full steam ahead, I say.”
However, while Hermione was checking that the coast was clear
for them to leave the bathroom, Ron muttered to Harry, “It’ll be a

lot less hassle if you can just knock Malfoy off his broom tomor-
row.”

Harry woke early on Saturday morning and lay for a while think-
ing about the coming Quidditch match. He was nervous, mainly at

the thought of what Wood would say if Gryffindor lost, but also at
the idea of facing a team mounted on the fastest racing brooms
gold could buy. He had never wanted to beat Slytherin so badly.
After half an hour of lying there with his insides churning, he got
up, dressed, and went down to breakfast early, where he found the
rest of the Gryffindor team huddled at the long, empty table, all
looking uptight and not speaking much.
As eleven o’clock approached, the whole school started to make
its way down to the Quidditch stadium. It was a muggy sort of day

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 167 

with a hint of thunder in the air. Ron and Hermione came hurry-
ing over to wish Harry good luck as he entered the locker rooms.

The team pulled on their scarlet Gryffindor robes, then sat down
to listen to Wood’s usual pre-match pep talk.

“Slytherin has better brooms than us,” he began. “No point de-
nying it. But we’ve got better people on our brooms. We’ve trained

harder than they have, we’ve been flying in all weathers —” (“Too
true,” muttered George Weasley. “I haven’t been properly dry since
August”) “— and we’re going to make them rue the day they let
that little bit of slime, Malfoy, buy his way onto their team.”
Chest heaving with emotion, Wood turned to Harry.
“It’ll be down to you, Harry, to show them that a Seeker has to
have something more than a rich father. Get to that Snitch before
Malfoy or die trying, Harry, because we’ve got to win today, we’ve
got to.”
“So no pressure, Harry,” said Fred, winking at him.
As they walked out onto the field, a roar of noise greeted them;
mainly cheers, because Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were anxious to
see Slytherin beaten, but the Slytherins in the crowd made their
boos and hisses heard, too. Madam Hooch, the Quidditch teacher,
asked Flint and Wood to shake hands, which they did, giving each

other threatening stares and gripping rather harder than was neces-
sary.

“On my whistle,” said Madam Hooch. “Three . . . two . . .
one . . .”
With a roar from the crowd to speed them upward, the fourteen
players rose toward the leaden sky. Harry flew higher than any of
them, squinting around for the Snitch.

CHAPTER TEN

 168 

“All right there, Scarhead?” yelled Malfoy, shooting underneath
him as though to show off the speed of his broom.
Harry had no time to reply. At that very moment, a heavy black
Bludger came pelting toward him; he avoided it so narrowly that
he felt it ruffle his hair as it passed.
“Close one, Harry!” said George, streaking past him with his

club in his hand, ready to knock the Bludger back toward a Slyth-
erin. Harry saw George give the Bludger a powerful whack in the

direction of Adrian Pucey, but the Bludger changed direction in
midair and shot straight for Harry again.
Harry dropped quickly to avoid it, and George managed to hit
it hard toward Malfoy. Once again, the Bludger swerved like a
boomerang and shot at Harry’s head.
Harry put on a burst of speed and zoomed toward the other end
of the field. He could hear the Bludger whistling along behind
him. What was going on? Bludgers never concentrated on one
player like this; it was their job to try and unseat as many people as
possible. . . .
Fred Weasley was waiting for the Bludger at the other end.
Harry ducked as Fred swung at the Bludger with all his might; the
Bludger was knocked off course.
“Gotcha!” Fred yelled happily, but he was wrong; as though it
was magnetically attracted to Harry, the Bludger pelted after him
once more and Harry was forced to fly off at full speed.
It had started to rain; Harry felt heavy drops fall onto his face,
splattering onto his glasses. He didn’t have a clue what was going

on in the rest of the game until he heard Lee Jordan, who was com-
mentating, say, “Slytherin lead, sixty points to zero —”

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 169 

The Slytherins’ superior brooms were clearly doing their jobs,
and meanwhile the mad Bludger was doing all it could to knock
Harry out of the air. Fred and George were now flying so close to
him on either side that Harry could see nothing at all except their
flailing arms and had no chance to look for the Snitch, let alone
catch it.
“Someone’s — tampered — with — this — Bludger —” Fred
grunted, swinging his bat with all his might at it as it launched a
new attack on Harry.
“We need time out,” said George, trying to signal to Wood and
stop the Bludger breaking Harry’s nose at the same time.
Wood had obviously got the message. Madam Hooch’s whistle
rang out and Harry, Fred, and George dived for the ground, still
trying to avoid the mad Bludger.
“What’s going on?” said Wood as the Gryffindor team huddled

together, while Slytherins in the crowd jeered. “We’re being flat-
tened. Fred, George, where were you when that Bludger stopped

Angelina scoring?”
“We were twenty feet above her, stopping the other Bludger
from murdering Harry, Oliver,” said George angrily. “Someone’s
fixed it — it won’t leave Harry alone. It hasn’t gone for anyone else
all game. The Slytherins must have done something to it.”
“But the Bludgers have been locked in Madam Hooch’s office
since our last practice, and there was nothing wrong with them
then. . . .” said Wood, anxiously.
Madam Hooch was walking toward them. Over her shoulder,

Harry could see the Slytherin team jeering and pointing in his di-
rection.

CHAPTER TEN

 170 

“Listen,” said Harry as she came nearer and nearer, “with you
two flying around me all the time the only way I’m going to catch
the Snitch is if it flies up my sleeve. Go back to the rest of the team
and let me deal with the rogue one.”
“Don’t be thick,” said Fred. “It’ll take your head off.”
Wood was looking from Harry to the Weasleys.
“Oliver, this is insane,” said Alicia Spinnet angrily. “You can’t let
Harry deal with that thing on his own. Let’s ask for an inquiry —”
“If we stop now, we’ll have to forfeit the match!” said Harry.
“And we’re not losing to Slytherin just because of a crazy Bludger!
Come on, Oliver, tell them to leave me alone!”
“This is all your fault,” George said angrily to Wood. “ ‘Get the
Snitch or die trying,’ what a stupid thing to tell him —”
Madam Hooch had joined them.
“Ready to resume play?” she asked Wood.
Wood looked at the determined look on Harry’s face.
“All right,” he said. “Fred, George, you heard Harry — leave
him alone and let him deal with the Bludger on his own.”
The rain was falling more heavily now. On Madam Hooch’s
whistle, Harry kicked hard into the air and heard the telltale whoosh
of the Bludger behind him. Higher and higher Harry climbed; he
looped and swooped, spiraled, zigzagged, and rolled. Slightly dizzy,
he nevertheless kept his eyes wide open, rain was speckling his
glasses and ran up his nostrils as he hung upside down, avoiding
another fierce dive from the Bludger. He could hear laughter from
the crowd; he knew he must look very stupid, but the rogue
Bludger was heavy and couldn’t change direction as quickly as
Harry could; he began a kind of roller-coaster ride around the

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 171 

edges of the stadium, squinting through the silver sheets of rain to
the Gryffindor goal posts, where Adrian Pucey was trying to get
past Wood —
A whistling in Harry’s ear told him the Bludger had just missed
him again; he turned right over and sped in the opposite direction.
“Training for the ballet, Potter?” yelled Malfoy as Harry was
forced to do a stupid kind of twirl in midair to dodge the Bludger,
and he fled, the Bludger trailing a few feet behind him; and then,
glaring back at Malfoy in hatred, he saw it — the Golden Snitch. It
was hovering inches above Malfoy’s left ear — and Malfoy, busy
laughing at Harry, hadn’t seen it.
For an agonizing moment, Harry hung in midair, not daring to
speed toward Malfoy in case he looked up and saw the Snitch.
WHAM.
He had stayed still a second too long. The Bludger had hit
him at last, smashed into his elbow, and Harry felt his arm break.
Dimly, dazed by the searing pain in his arm, he slid sideways on
his rain-drenched broom, one knee still crooked over it, his right
arm dangling useless at his side — the Bludger came pelting back
for a second attack, this time aiming at his face — Harry swerved
out of the way, one idea firmly lodged in his numb brain: get to
Malfoy.
Through a haze of rain and pain he dived for the shimmering,
sneering face below him and saw its eyes widen with fear: Malfoy
thought Harry was attacking him.
“What the —” he gasped, careening out of Harry’s way.
Harry took his remaining hand off his broom and made a wild
snatch; he felt his fingers close on the cold Snitch but was now only

CHAPTER TEN

 172 

gripping the broom with his legs, and there was a yell from the
crowd below as he headed straight for the ground, trying hard not
to pass out.
With a splattering thud he hit the mud and rolled off his
broom. His arm was hanging at a very strange angle; riddled
with pain, he heard, as though from a distance, a good deal of
whistling and shouting. He focused on the Snitch clutched in his
good hand.
“Aha,” he said vaguely. “We’ve won.”
And he fainted.
He came around, rain falling on his face, still lying on the field,
with someone leaning over him. He saw a glitter of teeth.
“Oh, no, not you,” he moaned.
“Doesn’t know what he’s saying,” said Lockhart loudly to the
anxious crowd of Gryffindors pressing around them. “Not to
worry, Harry. I’m about to fix your arm.”
“No!” said Harry. “I’ll keep it like this, thanks. . . .”
He tried to sit up, but the pain was terrible. He heard a familiar
clicking noise nearby.
“I don’t want a photo of this, Colin,” he said loudly.
“Lie back, Harry,” said Lockhart soothingly. “It’s a simple charm
I’ve used countless times —”
“Why can’t I just go to the hospital wing?” said Harry through
clenched teeth.
“He should really, Professor,” said a muddy Wood, who couldn’t
help grinning even though his Seeker was injured. “Great capture,
Harry, really spectacular, your best yet, I’d say —”
Through the thicket of legs around him, Harry spotted Fred and

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 173 

George Weasley, wrestling the rogue Bludger into a box. It was still
putting up a terrific fight.
“Stand back,” said Lockhart, who was rolling up his jade-green
sleeves.
“No — don’t —” said Harry weakly, but Lockhart was twirling
his wand and a second later had directed it straight at Harry’s arm.
A strange and unpleasant sensation started at Harry’s shoulder
and spread all the way down to his fingertips. It felt as though his

arm was being deflated. He didn’t dare look at what was happen-
ing. He had shut his eyes, his face turned away from his arm, but

his worst fears were realized as the people above him gasped and

Colin Creevey began clicking away madly. His arm didn’t hurt any-
more — nor did it feel remotely like an arm.

“Ah,” said Lockhart. “Yes. Well, that can sometimes happen. But
the point is, the bones are no longer broken. That’s the thing to
bear in mind. So, Harry, just toddle up to the hospital wing — ah,
Mr. Weasley, Miss Granger, would you escort him? — and Madam
Pomfrey will be able to — er — tidy you up a bit.”
As Harry got to his feet, he felt strangely lopsided. Taking a deep
breath he looked down at his right side. What he saw nearly made
him pass out again.
Poking out of the end of his robes was what looked like a thick,
flesh-colored rubber glove. He tried to move his fingers. Nothing
happened.
Lockhart hadn’t mended Harry’s bones. He had removed them.
Madam Pomfrey wasn’t at all pleased.
“You should have come straight to me!” she raged, holding up

CHAPTER TEN

 174 

the sad, limp remainder of what, half an hour before, had been a
working arm. “I can mend bones in a second — but growing them
back —”
“You will be able to, won’t you?” said Harry desperately.
“I’ll be able to, certainly, but it will be painful,” said Madam
Pomfrey grimly, throwing Harry a pair of pajamas. “You’ll have to
stay the night. . . .”
Hermione waited outside the curtain drawn around Harry’s bed
while Ron helped him into his pajamas. It took a while to stuff the
rubbery, boneless arm into a sleeve.
“How can you stick up for Lockhart now, Hermione, eh?” Ron
called through the curtain as he pulled Harry’s limp fingers
through the cuff. “If Harry had wanted deboning he would have
asked.”
“Anyone can make a mistake,” said Hermione. “And it doesn’t
hurt anymore, does it, Harry?”
“No,” said Harry, getting into bed. “But it doesn’t do anything
else either.”
As he swung himself onto the bed, his arm flapped pointlessly.
Hermione and Madam Pomfrey came around the curtain.
Madam Pomfrey was holding a large bottle of something labeled
Skele-Gro.
“You’re in for a rough night,” she said, pouring out a steaming

beakerful and handing it to him. “Regrowing bones is a nasty busi-
ness.”

So was taking the Skele-Gro. It burned Harry’s mouth and throat
as it went down, making him cough and splutter. Still tut-tutting
about dangerous sports and inept teachers, Madam Pomfrey re-

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 175 

treated, leaving Ron and Hermione to help Harry gulp down some
water.
“We won, though,” said Ron, a grin breaking across his face.
“That was some catch you made. Malfoy’s face . . . he looked ready
to kill. . . .”
“I want to know how he fixed that Bludger,” said Hermione
darkly.
“We can add that to the list of questions we’ll ask him when
we’ve taken the Polyjuice Potion,” said Harry, sinking back onto
his pillows. “I hope it tastes better than this stuff. . . .”
“If it’s got bits of Slytherins in it? You’ve got to be joking,” said
Ron.
The door of the hospital wing burst open at that moment. Filthy
and soaking wet, the rest of the Gryffindor team had arrived to see
Harry.

“Unbelievable flying, Harry,” said George. “I’ve just seen Mar-
cus Flint yelling at Malfoy. Something about having the Snitch on

top of his head and not noticing. Malfoy didn’t seem too happy.”
They had brought cakes, sweets, and bottles of pumpkin juice;
they gathered around Harry’s bed and were just getting started on
what promised to be a good party when Madam Pomfrey came
storming over, shouting, “This boy needs rest, he’s got thirty-three
bones to regrow! Out! OUT!”
And Harry was left alone, with nothing to distract him from the
stabbing pains in his limp arm.
Hours and hours later, Harry woke quite suddenly in the pitch
blackness and gave a small yelp of pain: His arm now felt full of

CHAPTER TEN

 176 

large splinters. For a second, he thought that was what had woken
him. Then, with a thrill of horror, he realized that someone was
sponging his forehead in the dark.
“Get off!” he said loudly, and then, “Dobby!”
The house-elf’s goggling tennis ball eyes were peering at Harry
through the darkness. A single tear was running down his long,
pointed nose.
“Harry Potter came back to school,” he whispered miserably.
“Dobby warned and warned Harry Potter. Ah sir, why didn’t you
heed Dobby? Why didn’t Harry Potter go back home when he
missed the train?”
Harry heaved himself up on his pillows and pushed Dobby’s
sponge away.
“What’re you doing here?” he said. “And how did you know I
missed the train?”

Dobby’s lip trembled and Harry was seized by a sudden suspi-
cion.

“It was you!” he said slowly. “You stopped the barrier from letting
us through!”
“Indeed yes, sir,” said Dobby, nodding his head vigorously, ears
flapping. “Dobby hid and watched for Harry Potter and sealed the
gateway and Dobby had to iron his hands afterward” — he showed
Harry ten long, bandaged fingers — “but Dobby didn’t care, sir,
for he thought Harry Potter was safe, and never did Dobby dream
that Harry Potter would get to school another way!”
He was rocking backward and forward, shaking his ugly head.
“Dobby was so shocked when he heard Harry Potter was back at
Hogwarts, he let his master’s dinner burn! Such a flogging Dobby
never had, sir. . . .”

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 177 
Harry slumped back onto his pillows.
“You nearly got Ron and me expelled,” he said fiercely. “You’d
better get lost before my bones come back, Dobby, or I might
strangle you.”
Dobby smiled weakly.
“Dobby is used to death threats, sir. Dobby gets them five times
a day at home.”
He blew his nose on a corner of the filthy pillowcase he wore,
looking so pathetic that Harry felt his anger ebb away in spite of
himself.
“Why d’you wear that thing, Dobby?” he asked curiously.
“This, sir?” said Dobby, plucking at the pillowcase. “ ’Tis a mark
of the house-elf’s enslavement, sir. Dobby can only be freed if his
masters present him with clothes, sir. The family is careful not to
pass Dobby even a sock, sir, for then he would be free to leave their
house forever.”

Dobby mopped his bulging eyes and said suddenly, “Harry Pot-
ter must go home! Dobby thought his Bludger would be enough to

make —”
“Your Bludger?” said Harry, anger rising once more. “What
d’you mean, your Bludger? You made that Bludger try and kill me?”
“Not kill you, sir, never kill you!” said Dobby, shocked. “Dobby

wants to save Harry Potter’s life! Better sent home, grievously in-
jured, than remain here, sir! Dobby only wanted Harry Potter hurt

enough to be sent home!”

“Oh, is that all?” said Harry angrily. “I don’t suppose you’re go-
ing to tell me why you wanted me sent home in pieces?”

“Ah, if Harry Potter only knew!” Dobby groaned, more tears
dripping onto his ragged pillowcase. “If he knew what he means

CHAPTER TEN

 178 

to us, to the lowly, the enslaved, we dregs of the magical world!

Dobby remembers how it was when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-
Named was at the height of his powers, sir! We house-elves were

treated like vermin, sir! Of course, Dobby is still treated like that,
sir,” he admitted, drying his face on the pillowcase. “But mostly,

sir, life has improved for my kind since you triumphed over He-
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. Harry Potter survived, and the Dark

Lord’s power was broken, and it was a new dawn, sir, and Harry
Potter shone like a beacon of hope for those of us who thought
the Dark days would never end, sir. . . . And now, at Hogwarts,
terrible things are to happen, are perhaps happening already, and
Dobby cannot let Harry Potter stay here now that history is to
repeat itself, now that the Chamber of Secrets is open once
more —”
Dobby froze, horrorstruck, then grabbed Harry’s water jug from
his bedside table and cracked it over his own head, toppling out of
sight. A second later, he crawled back onto the bed, cross-eyed,
muttering, “Bad Dobby, very bad Dobby . . .”
“So there is a Chamber of Secrets?” Harry whispered. “And —
did you say it’s been opened before? Tell me, Dobby!”
He seized the elf’s bony wrist as Dobby’s hand inched toward

the water jug. “But I’m not Muggle-born — how can I be in dan-
ger from the Chamber?”

“Ah, sir, ask no more, ask no more of poor Dobby,” stammered
the elf, his eyes huge in the dark. “Dark deeds are planned in this
place, but Harry Potter must not be here when they happen — go
home, Harry Potter, go home. Harry Potter must not meddle in
this, sir, ’tis too dangerous —”
“Who is it, Dobby?” Harry said, keeping a firm hold on Dobby’s

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 179 

wrist to stop him from hitting himself with the water jug again.
“Who’s opened it? Who opened it last time?”
“Dobby can’t, sir, Dobby can’t, Dobby mustn’t tell!” squealed the
elf. “Go home, Harry Potter, go home!”
“I’m not going anywhere!” said Harry fiercely. “One of my best
friends is Muggle-born; she’ll be first in line if the Chamber really
has been opened —”
“Harry Potter risks his own life for his friends!” moaned Dobby
in a kind of miserable ecstasy. “So noble! So valiant! But he must
save himself, he must, Harry Potter must not —”
Dobby suddenly froze, his bat ears quivering. Harry heard it,
too. There were footsteps coming down the passageway outside.
“Dobby must go!” breathed the elf, terrified. There was a loud
crack, and Harry’s fist was suddenly clenched on thin air. He

slumped back into bed, his eyes on the dark doorway to the hospi-
tal wing as the footsteps drew nearer.

Next moment, Dumbledore was backing into the dormitory,

wearing a long woolly dressing gown and a nightcap. He was carry-
ing one end of what looked like a statue. Professor McGonagall

appeared a second later, carrying its feet. Together, they heaved it
onto a bed.
“Get Madam Pomfrey,” whispered Dumbledore, and Professor
McGonagall hurried past the end of Harry’s bed out of sight. Harry
lay quite still, pretending to be asleep. He heard urgent voices, and
then Professor McGonagall swept back into view, closely followed

by Madam Pomfrey, who was pulling a cardigan on over her night-
dress. He heard a sharp intake of breath.

“What happened?” Madam Pomfrey whispered to Dumbledore,
bending over the statue on the bed.

CHAPTER TEN

 180 

“Another attack,” said Dumbledore. “Minerva found him on the
stairs.”

“There was a bunch of grapes next to him,” said Professor Mc-
Gonagall. “We think he was trying to sneak up here to visit Potter.”

Harry’s stomach gave a horrible lurch. Slowly and carefully, he
raised himself a few inches so he could look at the statue on the
bed. A ray of moonlight lay across its staring face.
It was Colin Creevey. His eyes were wide and his hands were
stuck up in front of him, holding his camera.
“Petrified?” whispered Madam Pomfrey.
“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “But I shudder to think . . . If
Albus hadn’t been on the way downstairs for hot chocolate — who
knows what might have —”
The three of them stared down at Colin. Then Dumbledore
leaned forward and wrenched the camera out of Colin’s rigid grip.
“You don’t think he managed to get a picture of his attacker?”
said Professor McGonagall eagerly.
Dumbledore didn’t answer. He opened the back of the camera.
“Good gracious!” said Madam Pomfrey.
A jet of steam had hissed out of the camera. Harry, three beds
away, caught the acrid smell of burnt plastic.
“Melted,” said Madam Pomfrey wonderingly. “All melted . . .”

“What does this mean, Albus?” Professor McGonagall asked ur-
gently.

“It means,” said Dumbledore, “that the Chamber of Secrets is
indeed open again.”
Madam Pomfrey clapped a hand to her mouth. Professor
McGonagall stared at Dumbledore.

THE ROGUE BLUDGER

 181 
“But, Albus . . . surely . . . who?”
“The question is not who,” said Dumbledore, his eyes on Colin.
“The question is, how. . . .”

And from what Harry could see of Professor McGonagall’s shad-
owy face, she didn’t understand this any better than he did.

C H A P T E R E L E V E N

 182 

THE DUELING CLUB

arry woke up on Sunday morning to find the dormitory
blazing with winter sunlight and his arm reboned but
very stiff. He sat up quickly and looked over at Colin’s bed, but it
had been blocked from view by the high curtains Harry had

changed behind yesterday. Seeing that he was awake, Madam Pom-
frey came bustling over with a breakfast tray and then began bend-
ing and stretching his arm and fingers.

“All in order,” she said as he clumsily fed himself porridge left-
handed. “When you’ve finished eating, you may leave.”

Harry dressed as quickly as he could and hurried off to Gryf-
findor Tower, desperate to tell Ron and Hermione about Colin

and Dobby, but they weren’t there. Harry left to look for
them, wondering where they could have got to and feeling slightly
hurt that they weren’t interested in whether he had his bones
back or not.
H

THE DUELING CLUB

 183 

As Harry passed the library, Percy Weasley strolled out of it,
looking in far better spirits than last time they’d met.

“Oh, hello, Harry,” he said. “Excellent flying yesterday, really ex-
cellent. Gryffindor has just taken the lead for the House Cup —

you earned fifty points!”
“You haven’t seen Ron or Hermione, have you?” said Harry.
“No, I haven’t,” said Percy, his smile fading. “I hope Ron’s not in
another girls’ toilet. . . .”
Harry forced a laugh, watched Percy walk out of sight, and then
headed straight for Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. He couldn’t see
why Ron and Hermione would be in there again, but after making
sure that neither Filch nor any prefects were around, he opened the
door and heard their voices coming from a locked stall.
“It’s me,” he said, closing the door behind him. There was a
clunk, a splash, and a gasp from within the stall and he saw
Hermione’s eye peering through the keyhole.
“Harry!” she said. “You gave us such a fright — come in —
how’s your arm?”
“Fine,” said Harry, squeezing into the stall. An old cauldron was
perched on the toilet, and a crackling from under the rim told

Harry they had lit a fire beneath it. Conjuring up portable, water-
proof fires was a speciality of Hermione’s.

“We’d’ve come to meet you, but we decided to get started on the
Polyjuice Potion,” Ron explained as Harry, with difficulty, locked
the stall again. “We’ve decided this is the safest place to hide it.”

Harry started to tell them about Colin, but Hermione inter-
rupted.

“We already know — we heard Professor McGonagall telling

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 184 

Professor Flitwick this morning. That’s why we decided we’d better
get going —”
“The sooner we get a confession out of Malfoy, the better,”
snarled Ron. “D’you know what I think? He was in such a foul
temper after the Quidditch match, he took it out on Colin.”

“There’s something else,” said Harry, watching Hermione tear-
ing bundles of knotgrass and throwing them into the potion.

“Dobby came to visit me in the middle of the night.”

Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Harry told them every-
thing Dobby had told him — or hadn’t told him. Hermione and

Ron listened with their mouths open.
“The Chamber of Secrets has been opened before?” Hermione
said.
“This settles it,” said Ron in a triumphant voice. “Lucius Malfoy
must’ve opened the Chamber when he was at school here and now
he’s told dear old Draco how to do it. It’s obvious. Wish Dobby’d
told you what kind of monster’s in there, though. I want to know
how come nobody’s noticed it sneaking around the school.”
“Maybe it can make itself invisible,” said Hermione, prodding
leeches to the bottom of the cauldron. “Or maybe it can disguise
itself — pretend to be a suit of armor or something — I’ve read
about Chameleon Ghouls —”
“You read too much, Hermione,” said Ron, pouring dead
lacewings on top of the leeches. He crumpled up the empty
lacewing bag and looked at Harry.
“So Dobby stopped us from getting on the train and broke your
arm. . . .” He shook his head. “You know what, Harry? If he doesn’t
stop trying to save your life he’s going to kill you.”

  

THE DUELING CLUB

 185 

The news that Colin Creevey had been attacked and was now lying
as though dead in the hospital wing had spread through the entire

school by Monday morning. The air was suddenly thick with ru-
mor and suspicion. The first years were now moving around the

castle in tight-knit groups, as though scared they would be attacked
if they ventured forth alone.
Ginny Weasley, who sat next to Colin Creevey in Charms, was
distraught, but Harry felt that Fred and George were going the
wrong way about cheering her up. They were taking turns covering
themselves with fur or boils and jumping out at her from behind
statues. They only stopped when Percy, apoplectic with rage, told
them he was going to write to Mrs. Weasley and tell her Ginny was
having nightmares.

Meanwhile, hidden from the teachers, a roaring trade in talis-
mans, amulets, and other protective devices was sweeping the

school. Neville Longbottom bought a large, evil-smelling green
onion, a pointed purple crystal, and a rotting newt tail before the
other Gryffindor boys pointed out that he was in no danger; he was
a pureblood, and therefore unlikely to be attacked.
“They went for Filch first,” Neville said, his round face fearful.
“And everyone knows I’m almost a Squib.”
In the second week of December Professor McGonagall came
around as usual, collecting names of those who would be staying at
school for Christmas. Harry, Ron, and Hermione signed her list;
they had heard that Malfoy was staying, which struck them as very
suspicious. The holidays would be the perfect time to use the
Polyjuice Potion and try to worm a confession out of him.
Unfortunately, the potion was only half finished. They still

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 186 

needed the bicorn horn and the boomslang skin, and the only
place they were going to get them was from Snape’s private stores.
Harry privately felt he’d rather face Slytherin’s legendary monster
than let Snape catch him robbing his office.
“What we need,” said Hermione briskly as Thursday afternoon’s
double Potions lesson loomed nearer, “is a diversion. Then one of
us can sneak into Snape’s office and take what we need.”
Harry and Ron looked at her nervously.
“I think I’d better do the actual stealing,” Hermione continued
in a matter-of-fact tone. “You two will be expelled if you get into
any more trouble, and I’ve got a clean record. So all you need to
do is cause enough mayhem to keep Snape busy for five minutes
or so.”
Harry smiled feebly. Deliberately causing mayhem in Snape’s
Potions class was about as safe as poking a sleeping dragon in the
eye.

Potions lessons took place in one of the large dungeons. Thurs-
day afternoon’s lesson proceeded in the usual way. Twenty caul-
drons stood steaming between the wooden desks, on which stood

brass scales and jars of ingredients. Snape prowled through the
fumes, making waspish remarks about the Gryffindors’ work while
the Slytherins sniggered appreciatively. Draco Malfoy, who was
Snape’s favorite student, kept flicking puffer-fish eyes at Ron and
Harry, who knew that if they retaliated they would get detention
faster than you could say “Unfair.”
Harry’s Swelling Solution was far too runny, but he had his
mind on more important things. He was waiting for Hermione’s
signal, and he hardly listened as Snape paused to sneer at his watery

THE DUELING CLUB

potion. When Snape turned and walked off to bully Neville,
Hermione caught Harry’s eye and nodded.
Harry ducked swiftly down behind his cauldron, pulled one
of Fred’s Filibuster fireworks out of his pocket, and gave it a
quick prod with his wand. The firework began to fizz and sputter.
Knowing he had only seconds, Harry straightened up, took aim,
and lobbed it into the air; it landed right on target in Goyle’s
cauldron.
Goyle’s potion exploded, showering the whole class. People
shrieked as splashes of the Swelling Solution hit them. Malfoy got

a faceful and his nose began to swell like a balloon; Goyle blun-
dered around, his hands over his eyes, which had expanded to the

size of a dinner plate — Snape was trying to restore calm and find

out what had happened. Through the confusion, Harry saw Her-
mione slip quietly into Snape’s office.

“Silence! SILENCE!” Snape roared. “Anyone who has been
splashed, come here for a Deflating Draught — when I find out
who did this —”
Harry tried not to laugh as he watched Malfoy hurry forward,
his head drooping with the weight of a nose like a small melon. As
half the class lumbered up to Snape’s desk, some weighted down

with arms like clubs, others unable to talk through gigantic puffed-
up lips, Harry saw Hermione slide back into the dungeon, the

front of her robes bulging.
When everyone had taken a swig of antidote and the various
swellings had subsided, Snape swept over to Goyle’s cauldron and
scooped out the twisted black remains of the firework. There was a
sudden hush.