Not for the first time, an argument had broken out over

breakfast at number four, Privet Drive. Mr. Vernon Durs-
ley had been woken in the early hours of the morning by a loud,

hooting noise from his nephew Harry’s room.
“Third time this week!” he roared across the table. “If you can’t
control that owl, it’ll have to go!”
Harry tried, yet again, to explain.
“She’s bored,” he said. “She’s used to flying around outside. If I
could just let her out at night —”

“Do I look stupid?” snarled Uncle Vernon, a bit of fried egg dan-
gling from his bushy mustache. “I know what’ll happen if that

owl’s let out.”
He exchanged dark looks with his wife, Petunia.
Harry tried to argue back but his words were drowned by a long,
loud belch from the Dursleys’ son, Dudley.
“I want more bacon.”
“There’s more in the frying pan, sweetums,” said Aunt Petunia,
turning misty eyes on her massive son. “We must build you up
while we’ve got the chance. . . . I don’t like the sound of that school
food. . . .”

“Nonsense, Petunia, I never went hungry when I was at Smelt-
ings,” said Uncle Vernon heartily. “Dudley gets enough, don’t you,

son?”
Dudley, who was so large his bottom drooped over either side of
the kitchen chair, grinned and turned to Harry.
“Pass the frying pan.”
“You’ve forgotten the magic word,” said Harry irritably.
The effect of this simple sentence on the rest of the family was
incredible: Dudley gasped and fell off his chair with a crash that
shook the whole kitchen; Mrs. Dursley gave a small scream and
clapped her hands to her mouth; Mr. Dursley jumped to his feet,
veins throbbing in his temples.
“I meant ‘please’!” said Harry quickly. “I didn’t mean —”
“WHAT HAVE I TOLD YOU,” thundered his uncle, spraying
spit over the table, “ABOUT SAYING THE ‘M’ WORD IN OUR
HOUSE?”
“But I —”
“HOW DARE YOU THREATEN DUDLEY!” roared Uncle
Vernon, pounding the table with his fist.
“I just —”
“I WARNED YOU! I WILL NOT TOLERATE MENTION
OF YOUR ABNORMALITY UNDER THIS ROOF!”
Harry stared from his purple-faced uncle to his pale aunt, who
was trying to heave Dudley to his feet.

THE WORST BIRTHDAY

 3 
“All right,” said Harry, “all right . . .”
Uncle Vernon sat back down, breathing like a winded rhinoceros
and watching Harry closely out of the corners of his small, sharp
eyes.

Ever since Harry had come home for the summer holidays, Un-
cle Vernon had been treating him like a bomb that might go off at

any moment, because Harry Potter wasn’t a normal boy. As a mat-
ter of fact, he was as not normal as it is possible to be.

Harry Potter was a wizard — a wizard fresh from his first year at
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. And if the Dursleys
were unhappy to have him back for the holidays, it was nothing to
how Harry felt.
He missed Hogwarts so much it was like having a constant
stomachache. He missed the castle, with its secret passageways and
ghosts, his classes (though perhaps not Snape, the Potions master),

the mail arriving by owl, eating banquets in the Great Hall, sleep-
ing in his four-poster bed in the tower dormitory, visiting the

gamekeeper, Hagrid, in his cabin next to the Forbidden Forest in
the grounds, and, especially, Quidditch, the most popular sport in

the wizarding world (six tall goal posts, four flying balls, and four-
teen players on broomsticks).

All Harry’s spellbooks, his wand, robes, cauldron, and top-of-
the-line Nimbus Two Thousand broomstick had been locked in a

cupboard under the stairs by Uncle Vernon the instant Harry had
come home. What did the Dursleys care if Harry lost his place on

the House Quidditch team because he hadn’t practiced all sum-
mer? What was it to the Dursleys if Harry went back to school

without any of his homework done? The Dursleys were what wiz-
ards called Muggles (not a drop of magical blood in their veins),

CHAPTER ONE

 4 

and as far as they were concerned, having a wizard in the family was
a matter of deepest shame. Uncle Vernon had even padlocked
Harry’s owl, Hedwig, inside her cage, to stop her from carrying
messages to anyone in the wizarding world.
Harry looked nothing like the rest of the family. Uncle Vernon
was large and neckless, with an enormous black mustache; Aunt
Petunia was horse-faced and bony; Dudley was blond, pink, and

porky. Harry, on the other hand, was small and skinny, with bril-
liant green eyes and jet-black hair that was always untidy. He wore

round glasses, and on his forehead was a thin, lightning-shaped
scar.
It was this scar that made Harry so particularly unusual, even for
a wizard. This scar was the only hint of Harry’s very mysterious
past, of the reason he had been left on the Dursleys’ doorstep
eleven years before.
At the age of one year old, Harry had somehow survived a curse
from the greatest Dark sorcerer of all time, Lord Voldemort, whose

name most witches and wizards still feared to speak. Harry’s par-
ents had died in Voldemort’s attack, but Harry had escaped with

his lightning scar, and somehow — nobody understood why —
Voldemort’s powers had been destroyed the instant he had failed to
kill Harry.
So Harry had been brought up by his dead mother’s sister and her

husband. He had spent ten years with the Dursleys, never un-
derstanding why he kept making odd things happen without

meaning to, believing the Dursleys’ story that he had got his scar in
the car crash that had killed his parents.
And then, exactly a year ago, Hogwarts had written to Harry,

THE WORST BIRTHDAY

 5 

and the whole story had come out. Harry had taken up his place at
wizard school, where he and his scar were famous . . . but now the
school year was over, and he was back with the Dursleys for the

summer, back to being treated like a dog that had rolled in some-
thing smelly.

The Dursleys hadn’t even remembered that today happened to
be Harry’s twelfth birthday. Of course, his hopes hadn’t been high;

they’d never given him a real present, let alone a cake — but to ig-
nore it completely . . .

At that moment, Uncle Vernon cleared his throat importantly
and said, “Now, as we all know, today is a very important day.”
Harry looked up, hardly daring to believe it.

“This could well be the day I make the biggest deal of my ca-
reer,” said Uncle Vernon.

Harry went back to his toast. Of course, he thought bitterly, Un-
cle Vernon was talking about the stupid dinner party. He’d been talk-
ing of nothing else for two weeks. Some rich builder and his wife

were coming to dinner and Uncle Vernon was hoping to get a huge
order from him (Uncle Vernon’s company made drills).
“I think we should run through the schedule one more time,”
said Uncle Vernon. “We should all be in position at eight o’clock.
Petunia, you will be — ?”

“In the lounge,” said Aunt Petunia promptly, “waiting to wel-
come them graciously to our home.”

“Good, good. And Dudley?”

“I’ll be waiting to open the door.” Dudley put on a foul, sim-
pering smile. “May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason?”

“They’ll love him!” cried Aunt Petunia rapturously.

CHAPTER ONE

 6 

“Excellent, Dudley,” said Uncle Vernon. Then he rounded on
Harry. “And you?”
“I’ll be in my bedroom, making no noise and pretending I’m not
there,” said Harry tonelessly.
“Exactly,” said Uncle Vernon nastily. “I will lead them into the

lounge, introduce you, Petunia, and pour them drinks. At eight-
fifteen —”

“I’ll announce dinner,” said Aunt Petunia.
“And, Dudley, you’ll say —”
“May I take you through to the dining room, Mrs. Mason?” said
Dudley, offering his fat arm to an invisible woman.
“My perfect little gentleman!” sniffed Aunt Petunia.
“And you?” said Uncle Vernon viciously to Harry.
“I’ll be in my room, making no noise and pretending I’m not
there,” said Harry dully.

“Precisely. Now, we should aim to get in a few good compli-
ments at dinner. Petunia, any ideas?”

“Vernon tells me you’re a wonderful golfer, Mr. Mason. . . . Do
tell me where you bought your dress, Mrs. Mason. . . .”
“Perfect . . . Dudley?”
“How about — ‘We had to write an essay about our hero at
school, Mr. Mason, and I wrote about you.’ ”

This was too much for both Aunt Petunia and Harry. Aunt Petu-
nia burst into tears and hugged her son, while Harry ducked under

the table so they wouldn’t see him laughing.
“And you, boy?”
Harry fought to keep his face straight as he emerged.
“I’ll be in my room, making no noise and pretending I’m not
there,” he said.

THE WORST BIRTHDAY

 7 

“Too right, you will,” said Uncle Vernon forcefully. “The Ma-
sons don’t know anything about you and it’s going to stay that way.

When dinner’s over, you take Mrs. Mason back to the lounge for
coffee, Petunia, and I’ll bring the subject around to drills. With any
luck, I’ll have the deal signed and sealed before the news at ten.

We’ll be shopping for a vacation home in Majorca this time to-
morrow.”

Harry couldn’t feel too excited about this. He didn’t think the
Dursleys would like him any better in Majorca than they did on
Privet Drive.
“Right — I’m off into town to pick up the dinner jackets for
Dudley and me. And you,” he snarled at Harry. “You stay out of
your aunt’s way while she’s cleaning.”
Harry left through the back door. It was a brilliant, sunny day.
He crossed the lawn, slumped down on the garden bench, and sang
under his breath:
“Happy birthday to me . . . happy birthday to me . . .”
No cards, no presents, and he would be spending the evening
pretending not to exist. He gazed miserably into the hedge. He had
never felt so lonely. More than anything else at Hogwarts, more
even than playing Quidditch, Harry missed his best friends, Ron
Weasley and Hermione Granger. They, however, didn’t seem to be
missing him at all. Neither of them had written to him all summer,
even though Ron had said he was going to ask Harry to come and
stay.
Countless times, Harry had been on the point of unlocking
Hedwig’s cage by magic and sending her to Ron and Hermione
with a letter, but it wasn’t worth the risk. Underage wizards weren’t
allowed to use magic outside of school. Harry hadn’t told the

CHAPTER ONE

 8 

Dursleys this; he knew it was only their terror that he might turn
them all into dung beetles that stopped them from locking him in
the cupboard under the stairs with his wand and broomstick. For

the first couple of weeks back, Harry had enjoyed muttering non-
sense words under his breath and watching Dudley tearing out of

the room as fast as his fat legs would carry him. But the long silence
from Ron and Hermione had made Harry feel so cut off from the
magical world that even taunting Dudley had lost its appeal — and
now Ron and Hermione had forgotten his birthday.
What wouldn’t he give now for a message from Hogwarts? From

any witch or wizard? He’d almost be glad of a sight of his arch-
enemy, Draco Malfoy, just to be sure it hadn’t all been a dream. . . .

Not that his whole year at Hogwarts had been fun. At the very
end of last term, Harry had come face-to-face with none other than
Lord Voldemort himself. Voldemort might be a ruin of his former

self, but he was still terrifying, still cunning, still determined to re-
gain power. Harry had slipped through Voldemort’s clutches for a

second time, but it had been a narrow escape, and even now, weeks

later, Harry kept waking in the night, drenched in cold sweat, won-
dering where Voldemort was now, remembering his livid face, his

wide, mad eyes —
Harry suddenly sat bolt upright on the garden bench. He had
been staring absent-mindedly into the hedge — and the hedge was
staring back. Two enormous green eyes had appeared among the
leaves.
Harry jumped to his feet just as a jeering voice floated across the
lawn.
“I know what day it is,” sang Dudley, waddling toward him.

THE WORST BIRTHDAY

 9 
The huge eyes blinked and vanished.
“What?” said Harry, not taking his eyes off the spot where they
had been.
“I know what day it is,” Dudley repeated, coming right up to
him.
“Well done,” said Harry. “So you’ve finally learned the days of
the week.”
“Today’s your birthday,” sneered Dudley. “How come you
haven’t got any cards? Haven’t you even got friends at that freak
place?”
“Better not let your mum hear you talking about my school,”
said Harry coolly.
Dudley hitched up his trousers, which were slipping down his
fat bottom.
“Why’re you staring at the hedge?” he said suspiciously.
“I’m trying to decide what would be the best spell to set it on
fire,” said Harry.
Dudley stumbled backward at once, a look of panic on his fat
face.
“You c-can’t — Dad told you you’re not to do m-magic — he

said he’ll chuck you out of the house — and you haven’t got any-
where else to go — you haven’t got any friends to take you —”

“Jiggery pokery!” said Harry in a fierce voice. “Hocus pocus —
squiggly wiggly —”
“MUUUUUUM!” howled Dudley, tripping over his feet as he
dashed back toward the house. “MUUUUM! He’s doing you know
what!”
Harry paid dearly for his moment of fun. As neither Dudley nor

CHAPTER ONE

 10 

the hedge was in any way hurt, Aunt Petunia knew he hadn’t really
done magic, but he still had to duck as she aimed a heavy blow at
his head with the soapy frying pan. Then she gave him work to do,
with the promise he wouldn’t eat again until he’d finished.
While Dudley lolled around watching and eating ice cream,
Harry cleaned the windows, washed the car, mowed the lawn,

trimmed the flowerbeds, pruned and watered the roses, and re-
painted the garden bench. The sun blazed overhead, burning the

back of his neck. Harry knew he shouldn’t have risen to Dudley’s
bait, but Dudley had said the very thing Harry had been thinking
himself . . . maybe he didn’t have any friends at Hogwarts. . . .
Wish they could see famous Harry Potter now, he thought savagely

as he spread manure on the flower beds, his back aching, sweat run-
ning down his face.

It was half past seven in the evening when at last, exhausted, he
heard Aunt Petunia calling him.
“Get in here! And walk on the newspaper!”
Harry moved gladly into the shade of the gleaming kitchen. On
top of the fridge stood tonight’s pudding: a huge mound of

whipped cream and sugared violets. A loin of roast pork was siz-
zling in the oven.

“Eat quickly! The Masons will be here soon!” snapped Aunt
Petunia, pointing to two slices of bread and a lump of cheese on the
kitchen table. She was already wearing a salmon-pink cocktail
dress.
Harry washed his hands and bolted down his pitiful supper. The
moment he had finished, Aunt Petunia whisked away his plate.
“Upstairs! Hurry!”

THE WORST BIRTHDAY

 11 

As he passed the door to the living room, Harry caught a

glimpse of Uncle Vernon and Dudley in bow ties and dinner jack-
ets. He had only just reached the upstairs landing when the door-
bell rang and Uncle Vernon’s furious face appeared at the foot of

the stairs.
“Remember, boy — one sound —”
Harry crossed to his bedroom on tiptoe, slipped inside, closed
the door, and turned to collapse on his bed.
The trouble was, there was already someone sitting on it.

C H A P T E R T W O

 12 

DOBBY’S WARNING

arry managed not to shout out, but it was a close thing.
The little creature on the bed had large, bat-like ears and
bulging green eyes the size of tennis balls. Harry knew instantly
that this was what had been watching him out of the garden hedge
that morning.
As they stared at each other, Harry heard Dudley’s voice from
the hall.
“May I take your coats, Mr. and Mrs. Mason?”
The creature slipped off the bed and bowed so low that the end
of its long, thin nose touched the carpet. Harry noticed that it was
wearing what looked like an old pillowcase, with rips for arm- and
leg-holes.
“Er — hello,” said Harry nervously.
“Harry Potter!” said the creature in a high-pitched voice Harry
was sure would carry down the stairs. “So long has Dobby wanted
to meet you, sir . . . Such an honor it is. . . .”
H

DOBBY’S WARNING

 13 

“Th-thank you,” said Harry, edging along the wall and sinking
into his desk chair, next to Hedwig, who was asleep in her large
cage. He wanted to ask, “What are you?” but thought it would
sound too rude, so instead he said, “Who are you?”

“Dobby, sir. Just Dobby. Dobby the house-elf,” said the crea-
ture.

“Oh — really?” said Harry. “Er — I don’t want to be rude or
anything, but — this isn’t a great time for me to have a house-elf in
my bedroom.”
Aunt Petunia’s high, false laugh sounded from the living room.
The elf hung his head.
“Not that I’m not pleased to meet you,” said Harry quickly,
“but, er, is there any particular reason you’re here?”
“Oh, yes, sir,” said Dobby earnestly. “Dobby has come to tell

you, sir . . . it is difficult, sir . . . Dobby wonders where to be-
gin. . . .”

“Sit down,” said Harry politely, pointing at the bed.
To his horror, the elf burst into tears — very noisy tears.
“S-sit down!” he wailed. “Never . . . never ever . . .”
Harry thought he heard the voices downstairs falter.

“I’m sorry,” he whispered, “I didn’t mean to offend you or any-
thing —”

“Offend Dobby!” choked the elf. “Dobby has never been asked
to sit down by a wizard — like an equal —”
Harry, trying to say “Shh!” and look comforting at the same
time, ushered Dobby back onto the bed where he sat hiccoughing,

looking like a large and very ugly doll. At last he managed to con-
trol himself, and sat with his great eyes fixed on Harry in an ex-
pression of watery adoration.

CHAPTER TWO

 14 

“You can’t have met many decent wizards,” said Harry, trying to
cheer him up.
Dobby shook his head. Then, without warning, he leapt up and
started banging his head furiously on the window, shouting, “Bad
Dobby! Bad Dobby!”
“Don’t — what are you doing?” Harry hissed, springing up and
pulling Dobby back onto the bed — Hedwig had woken up with a
particularly loud screech and was beating her wings wildly against
the bars of her cage.
“Dobby had to punish himself, sir,” said the elf, who had gone
slightly cross-eyed. “Dobby almost spoke ill of his family, sir. . . .”
“Your family?”

“The wizard family Dobby serves, sir. . . . Dobby is a house-
elf — bound to serve one house and one family forever. . . .”

“Do they know you’re here?” asked Harry curiously.
Dobby shuddered.
“Oh, no, sir, no . . . Dobby will have to punish himself most
grievously for coming to see you, sir. Dobby will have to shut his
ears in the oven door for this. If they ever knew, sir —”
“But won’t they notice if you shut your ears in the oven door?”
“Dobby doubts it, sir. Dobby is always having to punish himself
for something, sir. They lets Dobby get on with it, sir. Sometimes
they reminds me to do extra punishments. . . .”
“But why don’t you leave? Escape?”
“A house-elf must be set free, sir. And the family will never set
Dobby free . . . Dobby will serve the family until he dies, sir. . . .”
Harry stared.
“And I thought I had it bad staying here for another four weeks,”

DOBBY’S WARNING

 15 

he said. “This makes the Dursleys sound almost human. Can’t any-
one help you? Can’t I?”

Almost at once, Harry wished he hadn’t spoken. Dobby dis-
solved again into wails of gratitude.

“Please,” Harry whispered frantically, “please be quiet. If the
Dursleys hear anything, if they know you’re here —”
“Harry Potter asks if he can help Dobby . . . Dobby has heard of
your greatness, sir, but of your goodness, Dobby never knew. . . .”

Harry, who was feeling distinctly hot in the face, said, “What-
ever you’ve heard about my greatness is a load of rubbish. I’m not

even top of my year at Hogwarts; that’s Hermione, she —”
But he stopped quickly, because thinking about Hermione was
painful.
“Harry Potter is humble and modest,” said Dobby reverently, his
orb-like eyes aglow. “Harry Potter speaks not of his triumph over
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named —”
“Voldemort?” said Harry.
Dobby clapped his hands over his bat ears and moaned, “Ah,
speak not the name, sir! Speak not the name!”
“Sorry,” said Harry quickly. “I know lots of people don’t like it.
My friend Ron —”
He stopped again. Thinking about Ron was painful, too.
Dobby leaned toward Harry, his eyes wide as headlights.
“Dobby heard tell,” he said hoarsely, “that Harry Potter met the
Dark Lord for a second time, just weeks ago . . . that Harry Potter
escaped yet again.”
Harry nodded and Dobby’s eyes suddenly shone with tears.
“Ah, sir,” he gasped, dabbing his face with a corner of the grubby

CHAPTER TWO

 16 

pillowcase he was wearing. “Harry Potter is valiant and bold! He

has braved so many dangers already! But Dobby has come to pro-
tect Harry Potter, to warn him, even if he does have to shut his ears

in the oven door later. . . . Harry Potter must not go back to Hogwarts.”
There was a silence broken only by the chink of knives and forks
from downstairs and the distant rumble of Uncle Vernon’s voice.
“W-what?” Harry stammered. “But I’ve got to go back — term
starts on September first. It’s all that’s keeping me going. You don’t
know what it’s like here. I don’t belong here. I belong in your
world — at Hogwarts.”
“No, no, no,” squeaked Dobby, shaking his head so hard his ears
flapped. “Harry Potter must stay where he is safe. He is too great,
too good, to lose. If Harry Potter goes back to Hogwarts, he will be
in mortal danger.”
“Why?” said Harry in surprise.
“There is a plot, Harry Potter. A plot to make most terrible
things happen at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry this
year,” whispered Dobby, suddenly trembling all over. “Dobby has
known it for months, sir. Harry Potter must not put himself in
peril. He is too important, sir!”
“What terrible things?” said Harry at once. “Who’s plotting
them?”
Dobby made a funny choking noise and then banged his head
frantically against the wall.
“All right!” cried Harry, grabbing the elf’s arm to stop him. “You

can’t tell me. I understand. But why are you warning me?” A sud-
den, unpleasant thought struck him. “Hang on — this hasn’t got

anything to do with Vol — sorry — with You-Know-Who, has it?

DOBBY’S WARNING

 17 

You could just shake or nod,” he added hastily as Dobby’s head
tilted worryingly close to the wall again.
Slowly, Dobby shook his head.
“Not — not He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, sir —”
But Dobby’s eyes were wide and he seemed to be trying to give
Harry a hint. Harry, however, was completely lost.
“He hasn’t got a brother, has he?”
Dobby shook his head, his eyes wider than ever.

“Well then, I can’t think who else would have a chance of mak-
ing horrible things happen at Hogwarts,” said Harry. “I mean,

there’s Dumbledore, for one thing — you know who Dumbledore
is, don’t you?”
Dobby bowed his head.
“Albus Dumbledore is the greatest headmaster Hogwarts has
ever had. Dobby knows it, sir. Dobby has heard Dumbledore’s
powers rival those of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named at the height
of his strength. But, sir” — Dobby’s voice dropped to an urgent
whisper — “there are powers Dumbledore doesn’t . . . powers no
decent wizard . . .”
And before Harry could stop him, Dobby bounded off the bed,
seized Harry’s desk lamp, and started beating himself around the
head with earsplitting yelps.
A sudden silence fell downstairs. Two seconds later Harry, heart
thudding madly, heard Uncle Vernon coming into the hall, calling,
“Dudley must have left his television on again, the little tyke!”
“Quick! In the closet!” hissed Harry, stuffing Dobby in, shutting
the door, and flinging himself onto the bed just as the door handle
turned.

CHAPTER TWO

 18 

“What — the — devil — are — you — doing?” said Uncle Ver-
non through gritted teeth, his face horribly close to Harry’s.

“You’ve just ruined the punch line of my Japanese golfer joke. . . .
One more sound and you’ll wish you’d never been born, boy!”
He stomped flat-footed from the room.
Shaking, Harry let Dobby out of the closet.
“See what it’s like here?” he said. “See why I’ve got to go back to
Hogwarts? It’s the only place I’ve got — well, I think I’ve got
friends.”
“Friends who don’t even write to Harry Potter?” said Dobby slyly.

“I expect they’ve just been — wait a minute,” said Harry, frown-
ing. “How do you know my friends haven’t been writing to me?”

Dobby shuffled his feet.
“Harry Potter mustn’t be angry with Dobby. Dobby did it for
the best —”
“Have you been stopping my letters?”
“Dobby has them here, sir,” said the elf. Stepping nimbly out of
Harry’s reach, he pulled a thick wad of envelopes from the inside of
the pillowcase he was wearing. Harry could make out Hermione’s
neat writing, Ron’s untidy scrawl, and even a scribble that looked
as though it was from the Hogwarts gamekeeper, Hagrid.
Dobby blinked anxiously up at Harry.
“Harry Potter mustn’t be angry. . . . Dobby hoped . . . if Harry
Potter thought his friends had forgotten him . . . Harry Potter
might not want to go back to school, sir. . . .”
Harry wasn’t listening. He made a grab for the letters, but
Dobby jumped out of reach.
“Harry Potter will have them, sir, if he gives Dobby his word

DOBBY’S WARNING

 19 

that he will not return to Hogwarts. Ah, sir, this is a danger you
must not face! Say you won’t go back, sir!”
“No,” said Harry angrily. “Give me my friends’ letters!”
“Then Harry Potter leaves Dobby no choice,” said the elf sadly.
Before Harry could move, Dobby had darted to the bedroom
door, pulled it open, and sprinted down the stairs.
Mouth dry, stomach lurching, Harry sprang after him, trying
not to make a sound. He jumped the last six steps, landing catlike
on the hall carpet, looking around for Dobby. From the dining
room he heard Uncle Vernon saying, “. . . tell Petunia that very
funny story about those American plumbers, Mr. Mason. She’s
been dying to hear . . .”

Harry ran up the hall into the kitchen and felt his stomach dis-
appear.

Aunt Petunia’s masterpiece of a pudding, the mountain of cream
and sugared violets, was floating up near the ceiling. On top of a
cupboard in the corner crouched Dobby.
“No,” croaked Harry. “Please . . . they’ll kill me. . . .”
“Harry Potter must say he’s not going back to school —”
“Dobby . . . please . . .”
“Say it, sir —”
“I can’t —”
Dobby gave him a tragic look.
“Then Dobby must do it, sir, for Harry Potter’s own good.”
The pudding fell to the floor with a heart-stopping crash. Cream
splattered the windows and walls as the dish shattered. With a
crack like a whip, Dobby vanished.
There were screams from the dining room and Uncle Vernon

CHAPTER TWO

 20 

burst into the kitchen to find Harry, rigid with shock, covered from
head to foot in Aunt Petunia’s pudding.
At first, it looked as though Uncle Vernon would manage to
gloss the whole thing over. (“Just our nephew — very disturbed —
meeting strangers upsets him, so we kept him upstairs. . . .”) He
shooed the shocked Masons back into the dining room, promised

Harry he would flay him to within an inch of his life when the Ma-
sons had left, and handed him a mop. Aunt Petunia dug some ice

cream out of the freezer and Harry, still shaking, started scrubbing
the kitchen clean.
Uncle Vernon might still have been able to make his deal — if it
hadn’t been for the owl.
Aunt Petunia was just passing around a box of after-dinner
mints when a huge barn owl swooped through the dining room
window, dropped a letter on Mrs. Mason’s head, and swooped out
again. Mrs. Mason screamed like a banshee and ran from the house
shouting about lunatics. Mr. Mason stayed just long enough to tell
the Dursleys that his wife was mortally afraid of birds of all shapes
and sizes, and to ask whether this was their idea of a joke.
Harry stood in the kitchen, clutching the mop for support, as
Uncle Vernon advanced on him, a demonic glint in his tiny eyes.

“Read it!” he hissed evilly, brandishing the letter the owl had de-
livered. “Go on — read it!”

Harry took it. It did not contain birthday greetings.
Dear Mr. Potter,
We have received intelligence that a Hover Charm was

used at your place of residence this evening at twelve min-
utes past nine.

DOBBY’S WARNING

 21 

As you know, underage wizards are not permitted to per-
form spells outside school, and further spellwork on your

part may lead to expulsion from said school (Decree for the

Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery, 1875, Para-
graph C).

We would also ask you to remember that any magical
activity that risks notice by members of the non-magical
community (Muggles) is a serious offense under section 13
of the International Confederation of Warlocks’ Statute of
Secrecy.
Enjoy your holidays!
Yours sincerely,

Mafalda Hopkirk
improper use of magic office
Ministry of Magic
Harry looked up from the letter and gulped.
“You didn’t tell us you weren’t allowed to use magic outside

school,” said Uncle Vernon, a mad gleam dancing in his eyes. “For-
got to mention it. . . . Slipped your mind, I daresay. . . .”

He was bearing down on Harry like a great bulldog, all his teeth
bared. “Well, I’ve got news for you, boy. . . . I’m locking you
up. . . . You’re never going back to that school . . . never . . . and if
you try and magic yourself out — they’ll expel you!”
And laughing like a maniac, he dragged Harry back upstairs.
Uncle Vernon was as bad as his word. The following morning,

CHAPTER TWO

 22 

he paid a man to fit bars on Harry’s window. He himself fitted a
cat-flap in the bedroom door, so that small amounts of food could
be pushed inside three times a day. They let Harry out to use the
bathroom morning and evening. Otherwise, he was locked in his
room around the clock.
Three days later, the Dursleys were showing no sign of relenting,
and Harry couldn’t see any way out of his situation. He lay on his
bed watching the sun sinking behind the bars on the window and
wondered miserably what was going to happen to him.
What was the good of magicking himself out of his room if
Hogwarts would expel him for doing it? Yet life at Privet Drive had
reached an all-time low. Now that the Dursleys knew they weren’t
going to wake up as fruit bats, he had lost his only weapon. Dobby
might have saved Harry from horrible happenings at Hogwarts,

but the way things were going, he’d probably starve to death any-
way.

The cat-flap rattled and Aunt Petunia’s hand appeared, pushing
a bowl of canned soup into the room. Harry, whose insides were
aching with hunger, jumped off his bed and seized it. The soup was
stone-cold, but he drank half of it in one gulp. Then he crossed the

room to Hedwig’s cage and tipped the soggy vegetables at the bot-
tom of the bowl into her empty food tray. She ruffled her feathers

and gave him a look of deep disgust.
“It’s no good turning your beak up at it — that’s all we’ve got,”
said Harry grimly.
He put the empty bowl back on the floor next to the cat-flap and
lay back down on the bed, somehow even hungrier than he had
been before the soup.

DOBBY’S WARNING

 23 

Supposing he was still alive in another four weeks, what would
happen if he didn’t turn up at Hogwarts? Would someone be sent
to see why he hadn’t come back? Would they be able to make the
Dursleys let him go?
The room was growing dark. Exhausted, stomach rumbling,
mind spinning over the same unanswerable questions, Harry fell
into an uneasy sleep.
He dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card reading
underage wizard attached to his cage. People goggled through
the bars at him as he lay, starving and weak, on a bed of straw. He
saw Dobby’s face in the crowd and shouted out, asking for help,
but Dobby called, “Harry Potter is safe there, sir!” and vanished.
Then the Dursleys appeared and Dudley rattled the bars of the
cage, laughing at him.
“Stop it,” Harry muttered as the rattling pounded in his sore
head. “Leave me alone . . . cut it out . . . I’m trying to sleep. . . .”
He opened his eyes. Moonlight was shining through the bars on
the window. And someone was goggling through the bars at him: a
freckle-faced, red-haired, long-nosed someone.
Ron Weasley was outside Harry’s window.

C H A P T E R T H R E E

 24 

THE BURROW

on!” breathed Harry, creeping to the window and pushing it
up so they could talk through the bars. “Ron, how did
you — What the — ?”

Harry’s mouth fell open as the full impact of what he was see-
ing hit him. Ron was leaning out of the back window of an

old turquoise car, which was parked in midair. Grinning at Harry
from the front seats were Fred and George, Ron’s elder twin
brothers.
“All right, Harry?” asked George.

“What’s been going on?” said Ron. “Why haven’t you been an-
swering my letters? I’ve asked you to stay about twelve times, and

then Dad came home and said you’d got an official warning for us-
ing magic in front of Muggles —”

“It wasn’t me — and how did he know?”

“He works for the Ministry,” said Ron. “You know we’re not sup-
posed to do spells outside school —”

R

THE BURROW

 25 

“You should talk,” said Harry, staring at the floating car.
“Oh, this doesn’t count,” said Ron. “We’re only borrowing this.
It’s Dad’s, we didn’t enchant it. But doing magic in front of those
Muggles you live with —”
“I told you, I didn’t — but it’ll take too long to explain now —
look, can you tell them at Hogwarts that the Dursleys have locked
me up and won’t let me come back, and obviously I can’t magic
myself out, because the Ministry’ll think that’s the second spell I’ve
done in three days, so —”
“Stop gibbering,” said Ron. “We’ve come to take you home
with us.”
“But you can’t magic me out either —”
“We don’t need to,” said Ron, jerking his head toward the front
seat and grinning. “You forget who I’ve got with me.”
“Tie that around the bars,” said Fred, throwing the end of a rope
to Harry.
“If the Dursleys wake up, I’m dead,” said Harry as he tied the
rope tightly around a bar and Fred revved up the car.
“Don’t worry,” said Fred, “and stand back.”
Harry moved back into the shadows next to Hedwig, who
seemed to have realized how important this was and kept still and
silent. The car revved louder and louder and suddenly, with a
crunching noise, the bars were pulled clean out of the window as
Fred drove straight up in the air. Harry ran back to the window to
see the bars dangling a few feet above the ground. Panting, Ron
hoisted them up into the car. Harry listened anxiously, but there
was no sound from the Dursleys’ bedroom.

When the bars were safely in the back seat with Ron, Fred re-
versed as close as possible to Harry’s window.

CHAPTER THREE

 26 

“Get in,” Ron said.
“But all my Hogwarts stuff — my wand — my broomstick —”
“Where is it?”
“Locked in the cupboard under the stairs, and I can’t get out of
this room —”
“No problem,” said George from the front passenger seat. “Out
of the way, Harry.”
Fred and George climbed catlike through the window into
Harry’s room. You had to hand it to them, thought Harry, as
George took an ordinary hairpin from his pocket and started to
pick the lock.
“A lot of wizards think it’s a waste of time, knowing this sort of
Muggle trick,” said Fred, “but we feel they’re skills worth learning,
even if they are a bit slow.”
There was a small click and the door swung open.
“So — we’ll get your trunk — you grab anything you need from
your room and hand it out to Ron,” whispered George.
“Watch out for the bottom stair — it creaks,” Harry whispered
back as the twins disappeared onto the dark landing.
Harry dashed around his room, collecting his things and passing
them out of the window to Ron. Then he went to help Fred and
George heave his trunk up the stairs. Harry heard Uncle Vernon
cough.
At last, panting, they reached the landing, then carried the trunk
through Harry’s room to the open window. Fred climbed back into
the car to pull with Ron, and Harry and George pushed from the
bedroom side. Inch by inch, the trunk slid through the window.
Uncle Vernon coughed again.

THE BURROW

 27 

“A bit more,” panted Fred, who was pulling from inside the car.
“One good push —”
Harry and George threw their shoulders against the trunk and it
slid out of the window into the back seat of the car.
“Okay, let’s go,” George whispered.
But as Harry climbed onto the windowsill there came a sudden

loud screech from behind him, followed immediately by the thun-
der of Uncle Vernon’s voice.

“THAT RUDDY OWL!”
“I’ve forgotten Hedwig!”
Harry tore back across the room as the landing light clicked
on — he snatched up Hedwig’s cage, dashed to the window, and
passed it out to Ron. He was scrambling back onto the chest of
drawers when Uncle Vernon hammered on the unlocked door —
and it crashed open.
For a split second, Uncle Vernon stood framed in the doorway;
then he let out a bellow like an angry bull and dived at Harry,
grabbing him by the ankle.
Ron, Fred, and George seized Harry’s arms and pulled as hard as
they could.
“Petunia!” roared Uncle Vernon. “He’s getting away! HE’S
GETTING AWAY!”
But the Weasleys gave a gigantic tug and Harry’s leg slid out of
Uncle Vernon’s grasp — Harry was in the car — he’d slammed the
door shut —

“Put your foot down, Fred!” yelled Ron, and the car shot sud-
denly toward the moon.

Harry couldn’t believe it — he was free. He rolled down the

CHAPTER THREE

 28 

window, the night air whipping his hair, and looked back at the

shrinking rooftops of Privet Drive. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petu-
nia, and Dudley were all hanging, dumbstruck, out of Harry’s

window.
“See you next summer!” Harry yelled.
The Weasleys roared with laughter and Harry settled back in his
seat, grinning from ear to ear.
“Let Hedwig out,” he told Ron. “She can fly behind us. She
hasn’t had a chance to stretch her wings for ages.”
George handed the hairpin to Ron and, a moment later, Hedwig
soared joyfully out of the window to glide alongside them like a
ghost.
“So — what’s the story, Harry?” said Ron impatiently. “What’s
been happening?”
Harry told them all about Dobby, the warning he’d given Harry

and the fiasco of the violet pudding. There was a long, shocked si-
lence when he had finished.

“Very fishy,” said Fred finally.
“Definitely dodgy,” agreed George. “So he wouldn’t even tell
you who’s supposed to be plotting all this stuff?”
“I don’t think he could,” said Harry. “I told you, every time he
got close to letting something slip, he started banging his head
against the wall.”
He saw Fred and George look at each other.
“What, you think he was lying to me?” said Harry.

“Well,” said Fred, “put it this way — house-elves have got pow-
erful magic of their own, but they can’t usually use it without their

master’s permission. I reckon old Dobby was sent to stop you com-

THE BURROW

 29 

ing back to Hogwarts. Someone’s idea of a joke. Can you think of
anyone at school with a grudge against you?”
“Yes,” said Harry and Ron together, instantly.
“Draco Malfoy,” Harry explained. “He hates me.”
“Draco Malfoy?” said George, turning around. “Not Lucius
Malfoy’s son?”
“Must be, it’s not a very common name, is it?” said Harry.
“Why?”
“I’ve heard Dad talking about him,” said George. “He was a big
supporter of You-Know-Who.”
“And when You-Know-Who disappeared,” said Fred, craning
around to look at Harry, “Lucius Malfoy came back saying he’d
never meant any of it. Load of dung — Dad reckons he was right
in You-Know-Who’s inner circle.”
Harry had heard these rumors about Malfoy’s family before, and
they didn’t surprise him at all. Malfoy made Dudley Dursley look
like a kind, thoughtful, and sensitive boy.
“I don’t know whether the Malfoys own a house-elf. . . .” said
Harry.
“Well, whoever owns him will be an old wizarding family, and
they’ll be rich,” said Fred.

“Yeah, Mum’s always wishing we had a house-elf to do the iron-
ing,” said George. “But all we’ve got is a lousy old ghoul in the at-
tic and gnomes all over the garden. House-elves come with big old

manors and castles and places like that; you wouldn’t catch one in
our house. . . .”
Harry was silent. Judging by the fact that Draco Malfoy usually
had the best of everything, his family was rolling in wizard gold; he

CHAPTER THREE

 30 

could just see Malfoy strutting around a large manor house. Send-
ing the family servant to stop Harry from going back to Hogwarts

also sounded exactly like the sort of thing Malfoy would do. Had
Harry been stupid to take Dobby seriously?
“I’m glad we came to get you, anyway,” said Ron. “I was getting
really worried when you didn’t answer any of my letters. I thought
it was Errol’s fault at first —”
“Who’s Errol?”

“Our owl. He’s ancient. It wouldn’t be the first time he’d col-
lapsed on a delivery. So then I tried to borrow Hermes —”

“Who?”

“The owl Mum and Dad bought Percy when he was made pre-
fect,” said Fred from the front.

“But Percy wouldn’t lend him to me,” said Ron. “Said he needed
him.”
“Percy’s been acting very oddly this summer,” said George,
frowning. “And he has been sending a lot of letters and spending a
load of time shut up in his room. . . . I mean, there’s only so many
times you can polish a prefect badge. . . . You’re driving too far
west, Fred,” he added, pointing at a compass on the dashboard.
Fred twiddled the steering wheel.

“So, does your dad know you’ve got the car?” said Harry, guess-
ing the answer.

“Er, no,” said Ron, “he had to work tonight. Hopefully we’ll be
able to get it back in the garage without Mum noticing we flew it.”
“What does your dad do at the Ministry of Magic, anyway?”
“He works in the most boring department,” said Ron. “The
Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office.”

THE BURROW

 31 

“The what?”
“It’s all to do with bewitching things that are Muggle-made, you
know, in case they end up back in a Muggle shop or house. Like,

last year, some old witch died and her tea set was sold to an an-
tiques shop. This Muggle woman bought it, took it home, and

tried to serve her friends tea in it. It was a nightmare — Dad was
working overtime for weeks.”
“What happened?”
“The teapot went berserk and squirted boiling tea all over the
place and one man ended up in the hospital with the sugar tongs
clamped to his nose. Dad was going frantic — it’s only him and an
old warlock called Perkins in the office — and they had to do
Memory Charms and all sorts of stuff to cover it up —”
“But your dad — this car —”
Fred laughed. “Yeah, Dad’s crazy about everything to do with
Muggles; our shed’s full of Muggle stuff. He takes it apart, puts
spells on it, and puts it back together again. If he raided our house
he’d have to put himself under arrest. It drives Mum mad.”
“That’s the main road,” said George, peering down through the

windshield. “We’ll be there in ten minutes. . . . Just as well, it’s get-
ting light. . . .”

A faint pinkish glow was visible along the horizon to the east.
Fred brought the car lower, and Harry saw a dark patchwork of
fields and clumps of trees.
“We’re a little way outside the village,” said George. “Ottery St.
Catchpole.”
Lower and lower went the flying car. The edge of a brilliant red
sun was now gleaming through the trees.

CHAPTER THREE

 32 

“Touchdown!” said Fred as, with a slight bump, they hit the
ground. They had landed next to a tumbledown garage in a small
yard, and Harry looked out for the first time at Ron’s house.
It looked as though it had once been a large stone pigpen, but

extra rooms had been added here and there until it was several sto-
ries high and so crooked it looked as though it were held up by

magic (which, Harry reminded himself, it probably was). Four or
five chimneys were perched on top of the red roof. A lopsided sign
stuck in the ground near the entrance read, the burrow. Around

the front door lay a jumble of rubber boots and a very rusty caul-
dron. Several fat brown chickens were pecking their way around

the yard.
“It’s not much,” said Ron.
“It’s wonderful,” said Harry happily, thinking of Privet Drive.
They got out of the car.
“Now, we’ll go upstairs really quietly,” said Fred, “and wait for
Mum to call us for breakfast. Then, Ron, you come bounding
downstairs going, ‘Mum, look who turned up in the night!’ and
she’ll be all pleased to see Harry and no one need ever know we
flew the car.”
“Right,” said Ron. “Come on, Harry, I sleep at the — at the
top —”
Ron had gone a nasty greenish color, his eyes fixed on the house.
The other three wheeled around.
Mrs. Weasley was marching across the yard, scattering chickens,
and for a short, plump, kind-faced woman, it was remarkable how
much she looked like a saber-toothed tiger.
“Ah,” said Fred.

THE BURROW

 33 
“Oh, dear,” said George.
Mrs. Weasley came to a halt in front of them, her hands on her
hips, staring from one guilty face to the next. She was wearing a
flowered apron with a wand sticking out of the pocket.
“So,” she said.
“ ’Morning, Mum,” said George, in what he clearly thought was
a jaunty, winning voice.
“Have you any idea how worried I’ve been?” said Mrs. Weasley
in a deadly whisper.
“Sorry, Mum, but see, we had to —”
All three of Mrs. Weasley’s sons were taller than she was, but
they cowered as her rage broke over them.
“Beds empty! No note! Car gone — could have crashed — out of my
mind with worry — did you care? — never, as long as I’ve lived —
you wait until your father gets home, we never had trouble like this
from Bill or Charlie or Percy —”
“Perfect Percy,” muttered Fred.
“YOU COULD DO WITH TAKING A LEAF OUT OF
PERCY’S BOOK!” yelled Mrs. Weasley, prodding a finger in Fred’s
chest. “You could have died, you could have been seen, you could
have lost your father his job —”
It seemed to go on for hours. Mrs. Weasley had shouted herself
hoarse before she turned on Harry, who backed away.
“I’m very pleased to see you, Harry, dear,” she said. “Come in
and have some breakfast.”
She turned and walked back into the house and Harry, after a
nervous glance at Ron, who nodded encouragingly, followed her.
The kitchen was small and rather cramped. There was a

CHAPTER THREE

 34 

scrubbed wooden table and chairs in the middle, and Harry sat
down on the edge of his seat, looking around. He had never been
in a wizard house before.
The clock on the wall opposite him had only one hand and no
numbers at all. Written around the edge were things like Time to
make tea, Time to feed the chickens, and You’re late. Books were
stacked three deep on the mantelpiece, books with titles like
Charm Your Own Cheese, Enchantment in Baking, and One Minute
Feasts — It’s Magic! And unless Harry’s ears were deceiving him, the
old radio next to the sink had just announced that coming up was
“Witching Hour, with the popular singing sorceress, Celestina
Warbeck.”
Mrs. Weasley was clattering around, cooking breakfast a little
haphazardly, throwing dirty looks at her sons as she threw sausages
into the frying pan. Every now and then she muttered things like
“don’t know what you were thinking of,” and “never would have
believed it.”
“I don’t blame you, dear,” she assured Harry, tipping eight or
nine sausages onto his plate. “Arthur and I have been worried about

you, too. Just last night we were saying we’d come and get you our-
selves if you hadn’t written back to Ron by Friday. But really” (she

was now adding three fried eggs to his plate), “flying an illegal car
halfway across the country — anyone could have seen you —”

She flicked her wand casually at the dishes in the sink, which be-
gan to clean themselves, clinking gently in the background.

“It was cloudy, Mum!” said Fred.
“You keep your mouth closed while you’re eating!” Mrs. Weasley
snapped.
“They were starving him, Mum!” said George.

THE BURROW

 35 

“And you!” said Mrs. Weasley, but it was with a slightly softened
expression that she started cutting Harry bread and buttering it for
him.

At that moment there was a diversion in the form of a small, red-
headed figure in a long nightdress, who appeared in the kitchen,

gave a small squeal, and ran out again.
“Ginny,” said Ron in an undertone to Harry. “My sister. She’s
been talking about you all summer.”
“Yeah, she’ll be wanting your autograph, Harry,” Fred said with
a grin, but he caught his mother’s eye and bent his face over his
plate without another word. Nothing more was said until all four
plates were clean, which took a surprisingly short time.
“Blimey, I’m tired,” yawned Fred, setting down his knife and
fork at last. “I think I’ll go to bed and —”
“You will not,” snapped Mrs. Weasley. “It’s your own fault
you’ve been up all night. You’re going to de-gnome the garden for
me; they’re getting completely out of hand again —”
“Oh, Mum —”
“And you two,” she said, glaring at Ron and Fred. “You can go
up to bed, dear,” she added to Harry. “You didn’t ask them to fly
that wretched car —”
But Harry, who felt wide awake, said quickly, “I’ll help Ron. I’ve
never seen a de-gnoming —”
“That’s very sweet of you, dear, but it’s dull work,” said Mrs.
Weasley. “Now, let’s see what Lockhart’s got to say on the
subject —”
And she pulled a heavy book from the stack on the mantelpiece.
George groaned.
“Mum, we know how to de-gnome a garden —”

CHAPTER THREE

 36 

Harry looked at the cover of Mrs. Weasley’s book. Written across
it in fancy gold letters were the words Gilderoy Lockhart’s Guide to
Household Pests. There was a big photograph on the front of a very
good-looking wizard with wavy blond hair and bright blue eyes. As
always in the wizarding world, the photograph was moving; the
wizard, who Harry supposed was Gilderoy Lockhart, kept winking
cheekily up at them all. Mrs. Weasley beamed down at him.
“Oh, he is marvelous,” she said. “He knows his household pests,
all right, it’s a wonderful book. . . .”
“Mum fancies him,” said Fred, in a very audible whisper.
“Don’t be so ridiculous, Fred,” said Mrs. Weasley, her cheeks
rather pink. “All right, if you think you know better than Lockhart,

you can go and get on with it, and woe betide you if there’s a sin-
gle gnome in that garden when I come out to inspect it.”

Yawning and grumbling, the Weasleys slouched outside with

Harry behind them. The garden was large, and in Harry’s eyes, ex-
actly what a garden should be. The Dursleys wouldn’t have liked

it — there were plenty of weeds, and the grass needed cutting —
but there were gnarled trees all around the walls, plants Harry had
never seen spilling from every flower bed, and a big green pond full
of frogs.
“Muggles have garden gnomes, too, you know,” Harry told Ron
as they crossed the lawn.
“Yeah, I’ve seen those things they think are gnomes,” said Ron,
bent double with his head in a peony bush, “like fat little Santa
Clauses with fishing rods. . . .”
There was a violent scuffling noise, the peony bush shuddered,
and Ron straightened up. “This is a gnome,” he said grimly.

THE BURROW

 37 

“Gerroff me! Gerroff me!” squealed the gnome.

It was certainly nothing like Santa Claus. It was small and leath-
ery looking, with a large, knobby, bald head exactly like a potato.

Ron held it at arm’s length as it kicked out at him with its horny lit-
tle feet; he grasped it around the ankles and turned it upside down.

“This is what you have to do,” he said. He raised the gnome

above his head (“Gerroff me!”) and started to swing it in great cir-
cles like a lasso. Seeing the shocked look on Harry’s face, Ron

added, “It doesn’t hurt them — you’ve just got to make them really
dizzy so they can’t find their way back to the gnomeholes.”
He let go of the gnome’s ankles: It flew twenty feet into the air
and landed with a thud in the field over the hedge.
“Pitiful,” said Fred. “I bet I can get mine beyond that stump.”
Harry learned quickly not to feel too sorry for the gnomes. He
decided just to drop the first one he caught over the hedge, but the
gnome, sensing weakness, sank its razor-sharp teeth into Harry’s
finger and he had a hard job shaking it off — until —
“Wow, Harry — that must’ve been fifty feet. . . .”
The air was soon thick with flying gnomes.
“See, they’re not too bright,” said George, seizing five or six
gnomes at once. “The moment they know the de-gnoming’s going
on they storm up to have a look. You’d think they’d have learned by
now just to stay put.”
Soon, the crowd of gnomes in the field started walking away in
a straggling line, their little shoulders hunched.

“They’ll be back,” said Ron as they watched the gnomes disap-
pear into the hedge on the other side of the field. “They love it

here. . . . Dad’s too soft with them; he thinks they’re funny. . . .”

CHAPTER THREE

 38 
Just then, the front door slammed.
“He’s back!” said George. “Dad’s home!”
They hurried through the garden and back into the house.
Mr. Weasley was slumped in a kitchen chair with his glasses off
and his eyes closed. He was a thin man, going bald, but the little
hair he had was as red as any of his children’s. He was wearing long
green robes, which were dusty and travel-worn.
“What a night,” he mumbled, groping for the teapot as they all
sat down around him. “Nine raids. Nine! And old Mundungus
Fletcher tried to put a hex on me when I had my back turned. . . .”
Mr. Weasley took a long gulp of tea and sighed.
“Find anything, Dad?” said Fred eagerly.
“All I got were a few shrinking door keys and a biting kettle,”
yawned Mr. Weasley. “There was some pretty nasty stuff that

wasn’t my department, though. Mortlake was taken away for ques-
tioning about some extremely odd ferrets, but that’s the Commit-
tee on Experimental Charms, thank goodness. . . .”

“Why would anyone bother making door keys shrink?” said
George.
“Just Muggle-baiting,” sighed Mr. Weasley. “Sell them a key that
keeps shrinking to nothing so they can never find it when they
need it. . . . Of course, it’s very hard to convict anyone because no
Muggle would admit their key keeps shrinking — they’ll insist

they just keep losing it. Bless them, they’ll go to any lengths to ig-
nore magic, even if it’s staring them in the face. . . . But the things

our lot have taken to enchanting, you wouldn’t believe —”
“LIKE CARS, FOR INSTANCE?”
Mrs. Weasley had appeared, holding a long poker like a sword.
Mr. Weasley’s eyes jerked open. He stared guiltily at his wife.

THE BURROW

 39 

“C-cars, Molly, dear?”

“Yes, Arthur, cars,” said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes flashing. “Imag-
ine a wizard buying a rusty old car and telling his wife all he wanted

to do with it was take it apart to see how it worked, while really he
was enchanting it to make it fly.”
Mr. Weasley blinked.
“Well, dear, I think you’ll find that he would be quite within the
law to do that, even if — er — he maybe would have done better
to, um, tell his wife the truth. . . . There’s a loophole in the law,
you’ll find. . . . As long as he wasn’t intending to fly the car, the fact
that the car could fly wouldn’t —”
“Arthur Weasley, you made sure there was a loophole when you
wrote that law!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “Just so you could carry on
tinkering with all that Muggle rubbish in your shed! And for your

information, Harry arrived this morning in the car you weren’t in-
tending to fly!”

“Harry?” said Mr. Weasley blankly. “Harry who?”
He looked around, saw Harry, and jumped.
“Good lord, is it Harry Potter? Very pleased to meet you, Ron’s
told us so much about —”
“Your sons flew that car to Harry’s house and back last night!”
shouted Mrs. Weasley. “What have you got to say about that, eh?”
“Did you really?” said Mr. Weasley eagerly. “Did it go all right?
I — I mean,” he faltered as sparks flew from Mrs. Weasley’s eyes,
“that — that was very wrong, boys — very wrong indeed. . . .”
“Let’s leave them to it,” Ron muttered to Harry as Mrs. Weasley
swelled like a bullfrog. “Come on, I’ll show you my bedroom.”
They slipped out of the kitchen and down a narrow passageway
to an uneven staircase, which wound its way, zigzagging up

CHAPTER THREE

 40 

through the house. On the third landing, a door stood ajar. Harry

just caught sight of a pair of bright brown eyes staring at him be-
fore it closed with a snap.

“Ginny,” said Ron. “You don’t know how weird it is for her to be
this shy. She never shuts up normally —”
They climbed two more flights until they reached a door with
peeling paint and a small plaque on it, saying ronald’s room.
Harry stepped in, his head almost touching the sloping ceiling,
and blinked. It was like walking into a furnace: Nearly everything

in Ron’s room seemed to be a violent shade of orange: the bed-
spread, the walls, even the ceiling. Then Harry realized that Ron

had covered nearly every inch of the shabby wallpaper with posters
of the same seven witches and wizards, all wearing bright orange
robes, carrying broomsticks, and waving energetically.
“Your Quidditch team?” said Harry.

“The Chudley Cannons,” said Ron, pointing at the orange bed-
spread, which was emblazoned with two giant black C’s and a

speeding cannonball. “Ninth in the league.”
Ron’s school spellbooks were stacked untidily in a corner, next to
a pile of comics that all seemed to feature The Adventures of Martin
Miggs, the Mad Muggle. Ron’s magic wand was lying on top of a fish
tank full of frog spawn on the windowsill, next to his fat gray rat,
Scabbers, who was snoozing in a patch of sun.
Harry stepped over a pack of Self-Shuffling playing cards on the
floor and looked out of the tiny window. In the field far below he
could see a gang of gnomes sneaking one by one back through the

Weasleys’ hedge. Then he turned to look at Ron, who was watch-
ing him almost nervously, as though waiting for his opinion.

THE BURROW

 41 

“It’s a bit small,” said Ron quickly. “Not like that room you had
with the Muggles. And I’m right underneath the ghoul in the attic;
he’s always banging on the pipes and groaning. . . .”
But Harry, grinning widely, said, “This is the best house I’ve ever
been in.”
Ron’s ears went pink.

C H A P T E R F O U R

 42 

AT FLOURISH
AND BLOTTS

ife at the Burrow was as different as possible from life on Privet
Drive. The Dursleys liked everything neat and ordered; the
Weasleys’ house burst with the strange and unexpected. Harry got

a shock the first time he looked in the mirror over the kitchen man-
telpiece and it shouted, “Tuck your shirt in, scruffy!” The ghoul in

the attic howled and dropped pipes whenever he felt things were
getting too quiet, and small explosions from Fred and George’s
bedroom were considered perfectly normal. What Harry found

most unusual about life at Ron’s, however, wasn’t the talking mir-
ror or the clanking ghoul: It was the fact that everybody there

seemed to like him.
Mrs. Weasley fussed over the state of his socks and tried to force
him to eat fourth helpings at every meal. Mr. Weasley liked Harry
to sit next to him at the dinner table so that he could bombard him
with questions about life with Muggles, asking him to explain how
things like plugs and the postal service worked.
L

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 43 

“Fascinating!” he would say as Harry talked him through using a
telephone. “Ingenious, really, how many ways Muggles have found
of getting along without magic.”
Harry heard from Hogwarts one sunny morning about a week
after he had arrived at the Burrow. He and Ron went down to
breakfast to find Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Ginny already sitting

at the kitchen table. The moment she saw Harry, Ginny acciden-
tally knocked her porridge bowl to the floor with a loud clatter.

Ginny seemed very prone to knocking things over whenever Harry
entered a room. She dived under the table to retrieve the bowl and
emerged with her face glowing like the setting sun. Pretending he
hadn’t noticed this, Harry sat down and took the toast Mrs.
Weasley offered him.
“Letters from school,” said Mr. Weasley, passing Harry and Ron
identical envelopes of yellowish parchment, addressed in green ink.
“Dumbledore already knows you’re here, Harry — doesn’t miss a
trick, that man. You two’ve got them, too,” he added, as Fred and
George ambled in, still in their pajamas.
For a few minutes there was silence as they all read their letters.
Harry’s told him to catch the Hogwarts Express as usual from
King’s Cross station on September first. There was also a list of the
new books he’d need for the coming year.
second-year students will require:
The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 2
by Miranda Goshawk
Break with a Banshee by Gilderoy Lockhart
Gadding with Ghouls by Gilderoy Lockhart
Holidays with Hags by Gilderoy Lockhart

CHAPTER FOUR

 44 

Travels with Trolls by Gilderoy Lockhart
Voyages with Vampires by Gilderoy Lockhart
Wanderings with Werewolves by Gilderoy Lockhart
Year with the Yeti by Gilderoy Lockhart
Fred, who had finished his own list, peered over at Harry’s.
“You’ve been told to get all Lockhart’s books, too!” he said. “The
new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher must be a fan — bet it’s
a witch.”
At this point, Fred caught his mother’s eye and quickly busied
himself with the marmalade.
“That lot won’t come cheap,” said George, with a quick look at
his parents. “Lockhart’s books are really expensive. . . .”

“Well, we’ll manage,” said Mrs. Weasley, but she looked wor-
ried. “I expect we’ll be able to pick up a lot of Ginny’s things

secondhand.”
“Oh, are you starting at Hogwarts this year?” Harry asked
Ginny.
She nodded, blushing to the roots of her flaming hair, and put
her elbow in the butter dish. Fortunately no one saw this except
Harry, because just then Ron’s elder brother Percy walked in. He
was already dressed, his Hogwarts prefect badge pinned to his
sweater vest.
“Morning, all,” said Percy briskly. “Lovely day.”

He sat down in the only remaining chair but leapt up again al-
most immediately, pulling from underneath him a molting, gray

feather duster — at least, that was what Harry thought it was, un-
til he saw that it was breathing.

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 45 

“Errol!” said Ron, taking the limp owl from Percy and extracting

a letter from under its wing. “Finally — he’s got Hermione’s an-
swer. I wrote to her saying we were going to try and rescue you

from the Dursleys.”
He carried Errol to a perch just inside the back door and tried to
stand him on it, but Errol flopped straight off again so Ron laid
him on the draining board instead, muttering, “Pathetic.” Then he
ripped open Hermione’s letter and read it out loud:
“ ‘Dear Ron, and Harry if you’re there,
“ ‘I hope everything went all right and that Harry is okay and that
you didn’t do anything illegal to get him out, Ron, because that would
get Harry into trouble, too. I’ve been really worried and if Harry is all

right, will you please let me know at once, but perhaps it would be bet-
ter if you used a different owl, because I think another delivery might

finish your one off.
“ ‘I’m very busy with schoolwork, of course’ — How can she be?”

said Ron in horror. “We’re on vacation! — ‘and we’re going to Lon-
don next Wednesday to buy my new books. Why don’t we meet in Di-
agon Alley?

“ ‘Let me know what’s happening as soon as you can. Love from
Hermione.’ ”
“Well, that fits in nicely, we can go and get all your things then,
too,” said Mrs. Weasley, starting to clear the table. “What’re you all
up to today?”
Harry, Ron, Fred, and George were planning to go up the hill to
a small paddock the Weasleys owned. It was surrounded by trees
that blocked it from view of the village below, meaning that they
could practice Quidditch there, as long as they didn’t fly too high.

CHAPTER FOUR

 46 

They couldn’t use real Quidditch balls, which would have been
hard to explain if they had escaped and flown away over the village;
instead they threw apples for one another to catch. They took turns
riding Harry’s Nimbus Two Thousand, which was easily the best
broom; Ron’s old Shooting Star was often outstripped by passing
butterflies.
Five minutes later they were marching up the hill, broomsticks
over their shoulders. They had asked Percy if he wanted to join
them, but he had said he was busy. Harry had only seen Percy at
mealtimes so far; he stayed shut in his room the rest of the time.
“Wish I knew what he was up to,” said Fred, frowning. “He’s not
himself. His exam results came the day before you did; twelve
O.W.L.s and he hardly gloated at all.”
“Ordinary Wizarding Levels,” George explained, seeing Harry’s
puzzled look. “Bill got twelve, too. If we’re not careful, we’ll have
another Head Boy in the family. I don’t think I could stand the
shame.”
Bill was the oldest Weasley brother. He and the next brother,
Charlie, had already left Hogwarts. Harry had never met either of
them, but knew that Charlie was in Romania studying dragons and
Bill in Egypt working for the wizard’s bank, Gringotts.
“Dunno how Mum and Dad are going to afford all our school
stuff this year,” said George after a while. “Five sets of Lockhart
books! And Ginny needs robes and a wand and everything. . . .”

Harry said nothing. He felt a bit awkward. Stored in an under-
ground vault at Gringotts in London was a small fortune that his

parents had left him. Of course, it was only in the wizarding world
that he had money; you couldn’t use Galleons, Sickles, and Knuts

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 47 

in Muggle shops. He had never mentioned his Gringotts bank ac-
count to the Dursleys; he didn’t think their horror of anything con-
nected with magic would stretch to a large pile of gold.

Mrs. Weasley woke them all early the following Wednesday. After
a quick half a dozen bacon sandwiches each, they pulled on their

coats and Mrs. Weasley took a flowerpot off the kitchen mantel-
piece and peered inside.

“We’re running low, Arthur,” she sighed. “We’ll have to buy
some more today. . . . Ah well, guests first! After you, Harry dear!”
And she offered him the flowerpot.
Harry stared at them all watching him.
“W-what am I supposed to do?” he stammered.
“He’s never traveled by Floo powder,” said Ron suddenly. “Sorry,
Harry, I forgot.”

“Never?” said Mr. Weasley. “But how did you get to Diagon Al-
ley to buy your school things last year?”

“I went on the Underground —”
“Really?” said Mr. Weasley eagerly. “Were there escapators? How
exactly —”
“Not now, Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley. “Floo powder’s a lot
quicker, dear, but goodness me, if you’ve never used it before —”
“He’ll be all right, Mum,” said Fred. “Harry, watch us first.”
He took a pinch of glittering powder out of the flowerpot,
stepped up to the fire, and threw the powder into the flames.
With a roar, the fire turned emerald green and rose higher than

Fred, who stepped right into it, shouted, “Diagon Alley!” and van-
ished.

CHAPTER FOUR

 48 

“You must speak clearly, dear,” Mrs. Weasley told Harry as
George dipped his hand into the flowerpot. “And be sure to get out
at the right grate. . . .”
“The right what?” said Harry nervously as the fire roared and
whipped George out of sight, too.
“Well, there are an awful lot of wizard fires to choose from, you
know, but as long as you’ve spoken clearly —”

“He’ll be fine, Molly, don’t fuss,” said Mr. Weasley, helping him-
self to Floo powder, too.

“But, dear, if he got lost, how would we ever explain to his aunt
and uncle?”
“They wouldn’t mind,” Harry reassured her. “Dudley would
think it was a brilliant joke if I got lost up a chimney, don’t worry
about that —”
“Well . . . all right . . . you go after Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley.
“Now, when you get into the fire, say where you’re going —”
“And keep your elbows tucked in,” Ron advised.
“And your eyes shut,” said Mrs. Weasley. “The soot —”
“Don’t fidget,” said Ron. “Or you might well fall out of the
wrong fireplace —”
“But don’t panic and get out too early; wait until you see Fred
and George.”
Trying hard to bear all this in mind, Harry took a pinch of Floo
powder and walked to the edge of the fire. He took a deep breath,
scattered the powder into the flames, and stepped forward; the fire
felt like a warm breeze; he opened his mouth and immediately
swallowed a lot of hot ash.
“D-Dia-gon Alley,” he coughed.

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 49 

It felt as though he were being sucked down a giant drain. He

seemed to be spinning very fast — the roaring in his ears was deaf-
ening — he tried to keep his eyes open but the whirl of green

flames made him feel sick — something hard knocked his elbow
and he tucked it in tightly, still spinning and spinning — now it
felt as though cold hands were slapping his face — squinting
through his glasses he saw a blurred stream of fireplaces and
snatched glimpses of the rooms beyond — his bacon sandwiches
were churning inside him — he closed his eyes again wishing it
would stop, and then —
He fell, face forward, onto cold stone and felt the bridge of his
glasses snap.
Dizzy and bruised, covered in soot, he got gingerly to his feet,
holding his broken glasses up to his eyes. He was quite alone, but
where he was, he had no idea. All he could tell was that he was
standing in the stone fireplace of what looked like a large, dimly lit
wizard’s shop — but nothing in here was ever likely to be on a
Hogwarts school list.

A glass case nearby held a withered hand on a cushion, a blood-
stained pack of cards, and a staring glass eye. Evil-looking masks

stared down from the walls, an assortment of human bones lay
upon the counter, and rusty, spiked instruments hung from the
ceiling. Even worse, the dark, narrow street Harry could see
through the dusty shop window was definitely not Diagon Alley.
The sooner he got out of here, the better. Nose still stinging
where it had hit the hearth, Harry made his way swiftly and silently
toward the door, but before he’d got halfway toward it, two people
appeared on the other side of the glass — and one of them was the

CHAPTER FOUR

 50 

very last person Harry wanted to meet when he was lost, covered in
soot, and wearing broken glasses: Draco Malfoy.
Harry looked quickly around and spotted a large black cabinet
to his left; he shot inside it and pulled the doors closed, leaving a

small crack to peer through. Seconds later, a bell clanged, and Mal-
foy stepped into the shop.

The man who followed could only be Draco’s father. He had the
same pale, pointed face and identical cold, gray eyes. Mr. Malfoy
crossed the shop, looking lazily at the items on display, and rang a
bell on the counter before turning to his son and saying, “Touch
nothing, Draco.”
Malfoy, who had reached for the glass eye, said, “I thought you
were going to buy me a present.”

“I said I would buy you a racing broom,” said his father, drum-
ming his fingers on the counter.

“What’s the good of that if I’m not on the House team?” said
Malfoy, looking sulky and bad-tempered. “Harry Potter got a

Nimbus Two Thousand last year. Special permission from Dum-
bledore so he could play for Gryffindor. He’s not even that good,

it’s just because he’s famous . . . famous for having a stupid scar on
his forehead. . . .”
Malfoy bent down to examine a shelf full of skulls.
“. . . everyone thinks he’s so smart, wonderful Potter with his scar
and his broomstick —”
“You have told me this at least a dozen times already,” said Mr.
Malfoy, with a quelling look at his son. “And I would remind you

that it is not — prudent — to appear less than fond of Harry Pot-
ter, not when most of our kind regard him as the hero who made

the Dark Lord disappear — ah, Mr. Borgin.”

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 51 

A stooping man had appeared behind the counter, smoothing
his greasy hair back from his face.
“Mr. Malfoy, what a pleasure to see you again,” said Mr. Borgin

in a voice as oily as his hair. “Delighted — and young Master Mal-
foy, too — charmed. How may I be of assistance? I must show you,

just in today, and very reasonably priced —”

“I’m not buying today, Mr. Borgin, but selling,” said Mr. Mal-
foy.

“Selling?” The smile faded slightly from Mr. Borgin’s face.
“You have heard, of course, that the Ministry is conducting
more raids,” said Mr. Malfoy, taking a roll of parchment from his
inside pocket and unraveling it for Mr. Borgin to read. “I have a

few — ah — items at home that might embarrass me, if the Min-
istry were to call. . . .”

Mr. Borgin fixed a pair of pince-nez to his nose and looked
down the list.
“The Ministry wouldn’t presume to trouble you, sir, surely?”
Mr. Malfoy’s lip curled.
“I have not been visited yet. The name Malfoy still commands a
certain respect, yet the Ministry grows ever more meddlesome.
There are rumors about a new Muggle Protection Act — no doubt
that flea-bitten, Muggle-loving fool Arthur Weasley is behind
it —”
Harry felt a hot surge of anger.

“— and as you see, certain of these poisons might make it ap-
pear —”

“I understand, sir, of course,” said Mr. Borgin. “Let me see . . .”
“Can I have that?” interrupted Draco, pointing at the withered
hand on its cushion.

CHAPTER FOUR

 52 

“Ah, the Hand of Glory!” said Mr. Borgin, abandoning Mr.
Malfoy’s list and scurrying over to Draco. “Insert a candle and it
gives light only to the holder! Best friend of thieves and plunderers!
Your son has fine taste, sir.”
“I hope my son will amount to more than a thief or a plunderer,
Borgin,” said Mr. Malfoy coldly, and Mr. Borgin said quickly, “No
offense, sir, no offense meant —”
“Though if his grades don’t pick up,” said Mr. Malfoy, more
coldly still, “that may indeed be all he is fit for —”

“It’s not my fault,” retorted Draco. “The teachers all have fa-
vorites, that Hermione Granger —”

“I would have thought you’d be ashamed that a girl of no wizard
family beat you in every exam,” snapped Mr. Malfoy.
“Ha!” said Harry under his breath, pleased to see Draco looking
both abashed and angry.

“It’s the same all over,” said Mr. Borgin, in his oily voice. “Wiz-
ard blood is counting for less everywhere —”

“Not with me,” said Mr. Malfoy, his long nostrils flaring.
“No, sir, nor with me, sir,” said Mr. Borgin, with a deep bow.
“In that case, perhaps we can return to my list,” said Mr. Malfoy
shortly. “I am in something of a hurry, Borgin, I have important
business elsewhere today —”
They started to haggle. Harry watched nervously as Draco drew
nearer and nearer to his hiding place, examining the objects for
sale. Draco paused to examine a long coil of hangman’s rope and to
read, smirking, the card propped on a magnificent necklace of
opals, Caution: Do Not Touch. Cursed — Has Claimed the Lives of
Nineteen Muggle Owners to Date.

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 53 

Draco turned away and saw the cabinet right in front of him. He
walked forward — he stretched out his hand for the handle —
“Done,” said Mr. Malfoy at the counter. “Come, Draco —”
Harry wiped his forehead on his sleeve as Draco turned away.

“Good day to you, Mr. Borgin. I’ll expect you at the manor to-
morrow to pick up the goods.”

The moment the door had closed, Mr. Borgin dropped his oily
manner.
“Good day yourself, Mister Malfoy, and if the stories are true,
you haven’t sold me half of what’s hidden in your manor. . . .”
Muttering darkly, Mr. Borgin disappeared into a back room.
Harry waited for a minute in case he came back, then, quietly as he
could, slipped out of the cabinet, past the glass cases, and out of the
shop door.
Clutching his broken glasses to his face, Harry stared around.
He had emerged into a dingy alleyway that seemed to be made up
entirely of shops devoted to the Dark Arts. The one he’d just left,
Borgin and Burkes, looked like the largest, but opposite was a nasty
window display of shrunken heads and, two doors down, a large

cage was alive with gigantic black spiders. Two shabby-looking wiz-
ards were watching him from the shadow of a doorway, muttering

to each other. Feeling jumpy, Harry set off, trying to hold his
glasses on straight and hoping against hope he’d be able to find a
way out of here.

An old wooden street sign hanging over a shop selling poiso-
nous candles told him he was in Knockturn Alley. This didn’t

help, as Harry had never heard of such a place. He supposed he
hadn’t spoken clearly enough through his mouthful of ashes

CHAPTER FOUR

 54 

back in the Weasleys’ fire. Trying to stay calm, he wondered what
to do.
“Not lost are you, my dear?” said a voice in his ear, making him
jump.
An aged witch stood in front of him, holding a tray of what
looked horribly like whole human fingernails. She leered at him,
showing mossy teeth. Harry backed away.
“I’m fine, thanks,” he said. “I’m just —”
“HARRY! What d’yeh think yer doin’ down there?”

Harry’s heart leapt. So did the witch; a load of fingernails cas-
caded down over her feet and she cursed as the massive form of

Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, came striding toward them,
beetle-black eyes flashing over his great bristling beard.

“Hagrid!” Harry croaked in relief. “I was lost — Floo pow-
der —”

Hagrid seized Harry by the scruff of the neck and pulled him
away from the witch, knocking the tray right out of her hands. Her
shrieks followed them all the way along the twisting alleyway out
into bright sunlight. Harry saw a familiar, snow-white marble
building in the distance — Gringotts Bank. Hagrid had steered
him right into Diagon Alley.
“Yer a mess!” said Hagrid gruffly, brushing soot off Harry so

forcefully he nearly knocked him into a barrel of dragon dung out-
side an apothecary. “Skulkin’ around Knockturn Alley, I dunno —

dodgy place, Harry — don’ want no one ter see yeh down there —”
“I realized that,” said Harry, ducking as Hagrid made to brush
him off again. “I told you, I was lost — what were you doing down
there, anyway?”

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 55 

“I was lookin’ fer a Flesh-Eatin’ Slug Repellent,” growled Ha-
grid. “They’re ruinin’ the school cabbages. Yer not on yer own?”

“I’m staying with the Weasleys but we got separated,” Harry ex-
plained. “I’ve got to go and find them. . . .”

They set off together down the street.
“How come yeh never wrote back ter me?” said Hagrid as Harry
jogged alongside him (he had to take three steps to every stride of
Hagrid’s enormous boots). Harry explained all about Dobby and
the Dursleys.
“Lousy Muggles,” growled Hagrid. “If I’d’ve known —”
“Harry! Harry! Over here!”
Harry looked up and saw Hermione Granger standing at the top
of the white flight of steps to Gringotts. She ran down to meet
them, her bushy brown hair flying behind her.
“What happened to your glasses? Hello, Hagrid — Oh, it’s
wonderful to see you two again — Are you coming into Gringotts,
Harry?”
“As soon as I’ve found the Weasleys,” said Harry.
“Yeh won’t have long ter wait,” Hagrid said with a grin.
Harry and Hermione looked around: Sprinting up the crowded
street were Ron, Fred, George, Percy, and Mr. Weasley.
“Harry,” Mr. Weasley panted. “We hoped you’d only gone one
grate too far. . . .” He mopped his glistening bald patch. “Molly’s
frantic — she’s coming now —”
“Where did you come out?” Ron asked.
“Knockturn Alley,” said Hagrid grimly.
“Excellent!” said Fred and George together.
“We’ve never been allowed in,” said Ron enviously.

CHAPTER FOUR

 56 

“I should ruddy well think not,” growled Hagrid.

Mrs. Weasley now came galloping into view, her handbag swing-
ing wildly in one hand, Ginny just clinging onto the other.

“Oh, Harry — oh, my dear — you could have been any-
where —”

Gasping for breath she pulled a large clothes brush out of her
bag and began sweeping off the soot Hagrid hadn’t managed to
beat away. Mr. Weasley took Harry’s glasses, gave them a tap of his
wand, and returned them, good as new.
“Well, gotta be off,” said Hagrid, who was having his hand
wrung by Mrs. Weasley (“Knockturn Alley! If you hadn’t found
him, Hagrid!”). “See yer at Hogwarts!” And he strode away, head
and shoulders taller than anyone else in the packed street.
“Guess who I saw in Borgin and Burkes?” Harry asked Ron and

Hermione as they climbed the Gringotts steps. “Malfoy and his fa-
ther.”

“Did Lucius Malfoy buy anything?” said Mr. Weasley sharply
behind them.
“No, he was selling —”
“So he’s worried,” said Mr. Weasley with grim satisfaction. “Oh,
I’d love to get Lucius Malfoy for something. . . .”
“You be careful, Arthur,” said Mrs. Weasley sharply as they were

bowed into the bank by a goblin at the door. “That family’s trou-
ble. Don’t go biting off more than you can chew —”

“So you don’t think I’m a match for Lucius Malfoy?” said Mr.
Weasley indignantly, but he was distracted almost at once by the
sight of Hermione’s parents, who were standing nervously at the
counter that ran all along the great marble hall, waiting for
Hermione to introduce them.

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 57 

“But you’re Muggles!” said Mr. Weasley delightedly. “We must
have a drink! What’s that you’ve got there? Oh, you’re changing

Muggle money. Molly, look!” He pointed excitedly at the ten-
pound notes in Mr. Granger’s hand.

“Meet you back here,” Ron said to Hermione as the Weasleys
and Harry were led off to their underground vaults by another
Gringotts goblin.
The vaults were reached by means of small, goblin-driven carts

that sped along minature train tracks through the bank’s under-
ground tunnels. Harry enjoyed the breakneck journey down to the

Weasleys’ vault, but felt dreadful, far worse than he had in Knock-
turn Alley, when it was opened. There was a very small pile of sil-
ver Sickles inside, and just one gold Galleon. Mrs. Weasley felt

right into the corners before sweeping the whole lot into her bag.
Harry felt even worse when they reached his vault. He tried to
block the contents from view as he hastily shoved handfuls of coins
into a leather bag.

Back outside on the marble steps, they all separated. Percy mut-
tered vaguely about needing a new quill. Fred and George had

spotted their friend from Hogwarts, Lee Jordan. Mrs. Weasley and

Ginny were going to a secondhand robe shop. Mr. Weasley was in-
sisting on taking the Grangers off to the Leaky Cauldron for a

drink.
“We’ll all meet at Flourish and Blotts in an hour to buy your
schoolbooks,” said Mrs. Weasley, setting off with Ginny. “And not

one step down Knockturn Alley!” she shouted at the twins’ retreat-
ing backs.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione strolled off along the winding, cob-
bled street. The bag of gold, silver, and bronze jangling cheerfully

CHAPTER FOUR

 58 

in Harry’s pocket was clamoring to be spent, so he bought three
large strawberry-and-peanut-butter ice creams, which they slurped
happily as they wandered up the alley, examining the fascinating

shop windows. Ron gazed longingly at a full set of Chudley Can-
non robes in the windows of Quality Quidditch Supplies until

Hermione dragged them off to buy ink and parchment next door.
In Gambol and Japes Wizarding Joke Shop, they met Fred, George,
and Lee Jordan, who were stocking up on Dr. Filibuster’s Fabulous

Wet-Start, No-Heat Fireworks, and in a tiny junk shop full of bro-
ken wands, lopsided brass scales, and old cloaks covered in potion

stains they found Percy, deeply immersed in a small and deeply
boring book called Prefects Who Gained Power.
“A study of Hogwarts prefects and their later careers,” Ron read
aloud off the back cover. “That sounds fascinating. . . .”
“Go away,” Percy snapped.
“ ’Course, he’s very ambitious, Percy, he’s got it all planned
out. . . . He wants to be Minister of Magic . . .” Ron told Harry
and Hermione in an undertone as they left Percy to it.
An hour later, they headed for Flourish and Blotts. They were by
no means the only ones making their way to the bookshop. As they

approached it, they saw to their surprise a large crowd jostling out-
side the doors, trying to get in. The reason for this was proclaimed

by a large banner stretched across the upper windows:
GILDEROY LOCKHART
will be signing copies of his autobiography

MAGICAL ME
today 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 59 

“We can actually meet him!” Hermione squealed. “I mean, he’s
written almost the whole booklist!”
The crowd seemed to be made up mostly of witches around
Mrs. Weasley’s age. A harassed-looking wizard stood at the door,
saying, “Calmly, please, ladies. . . . Don’t push, there . . . mind the
books, now. . . .”
Harry, Ron, and Hermione squeezed inside. A long line wound
right to the back of the shop, where Gilderoy Lockhart was signing
his books. They each grabbed a copy of The Standard Book of Spells,
Grade 2 and sneaked up the line to where the rest of the Weasleys
were standing with Mr. and Mrs. Granger.
“Oh, there you are, good,” said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded
breathless and kept patting her hair. “We’ll be able to see him in a
minute. . . .”
Gilderoy Lockhart came slowly into view, seated at a table
surrounded by large pictures of his own face, all winking and
flashing dazzlingly white teeth at the crowd. The real Lockhart
was wearing robes of forget-me-not blue that exactly matched his
eyes; his pointed wizard’s hat was set at a jaunty angle on his wavy
hair.

A short, irritable-looking man was dancing around taking pho-
tographs with a large black camera that emitted puffs of purple

smoke with every blinding flash.
“Out of the way, there,” he snarled at Ron, moving back to get a
better shot. “This is for the Daily Prophet —”
“Big deal,” said Ron, rubbing his foot where the photographer
had stepped on it.
Gilderoy Lockhart heard him. He looked up. He saw Ron —

CHAPTER FOUR

 60 

and then he saw Harry. He stared. Then he leapt to his feet and
positively shouted, “It can’t be Harry Potter?”

The crowd parted, whispering excitedly; Lockhart dived for-
ward, seized Harry’s arm, and pulled him to the front. The crowd

burst into applause. Harry’s face burned as Lockhart shook his
hand for the photographer, who was clicking away madly, wafting
thick smoke over the Weasleys.

“Nice big smile, Harry,” said Lockhart, through his own gleam-
ing teeth. “Together, you and I are worth the front page.”

When he finally let go of Harry’s hand, Harry could hardly feel

his fingers. He tried to sidle back over to the Weasleys, but Lock-
hart threw an arm around his shoulders and clamped him tightly to

his side.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he said loudly, waving for quiet. “What
an extraordinary moment this is! The perfect moment for me to
make a little announcement I’ve been sitting on for some time!

“When young Harry here stepped into Flourish and Blotts to-
day, he only wanted to buy my autobiography — which I shall

be happy to present him now, free of charge —” The crowd
applauded again. “He had no idea,” Lockhart continued, giving
Harry a little shake that made his glasses slip to the end of his nose,
“that he would shortly be getting much, much more than my book,
Magical Me. He and his schoolmates will, in fact, be getting the real
magical me. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have great pleasure and
pride in announcing that this September, I will be taking up the
post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher at Hogwarts School
of Witchcraft and Wizardry!”
The crowd cheered and clapped and Harry found himself being

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 61 

presented with the entire works of Gilderoy Lockhart. Staggering
slightly under their weight, he managed to make his way out of the
limelight to the edge of the room, where Ginny was standing next
to her new cauldron.
“You have these,” Harry mumbled to her, tipping the books into
the cauldron. “I’ll buy my own —”
“Bet you loved that, didn’t you, Potter?” said a voice Harry had
no trouble recognizing. He straightened up and found himself
face-to-face with Draco Malfoy, who was wearing his usual sneer.

“Famous Harry Potter,” said Malfoy. “Can’t even go into a book-
shop without making the front page.”

“Leave him alone, he didn’t want all that!” said Ginny. It was the

first time she had spoken in front of Harry. She was glaring at Mal-
foy.

“Potter, you’ve got yourself a girlfriend!” drawled Malfoy. Ginny
went scarlet as Ron and Hermione fought their way over, both
clutching stacks of Lockhart’s books.

“Oh, it’s you,” said Ron, looking at Malfoy as if he were some-
thing unpleasant on the sole of his shoe. “Bet you’re surprised to see

Harry here, eh?”
“Not as surprised as I am to see you in a shop, Weasley,” retorted
Malfoy. “I suppose your parents will go hungry for a month to pay
for all those.”

Ron went as red as Ginny. He dropped his books into the caul-
dron, too, and started toward Malfoy, but Harry and Hermione

grabbed the back of his jacket.
“Ron!” said Mr. Weasley, struggling over with Fred and George.
“What are you doing? It’s too crowded in here, let’s go outside.”

CHAPTER FOUR

 62 
“Well, well, well — Arthur Weasley.”
It was Mr. Malfoy. He stood with his hand on Draco’s shoulder,
sneering in just the same way.
“Lucius,” said Mr. Weasley, nodding coldly.
“Busy time at the Ministry, I hear,” said Mr. Malfoy. “All those
raids . . . I hope they’re paying you overtime?”
He reached into Ginny’s cauldron and extracted, from amid the

glossy Lockhart books, a very old, very battered copy of A Begin-
ner’s Guide to Transfiguration.

“Obviously not,” Mr. Malfoy said. “Dear me, what’s the use of
being a disgrace to the name of wizard if they don’t even pay you
well for it?”
Mr. Weasley flushed darker than either Ron or Ginny.

“We have a very different idea of what disgraces the name of wiz-
ard, Malfoy,” he said.

“Clearly,” said Mr. Malfoy, his pale eyes straying to Mr. and
Mrs. Granger, who were watching apprehensively. “The company
you keep, Weasley . . . and I thought your family could sink no
lower —”
There was a thud of metal as Ginny’s cauldron went flying; Mr.

Weasley had thrown himself at Mr. Malfoy, knocking him back-
ward into a bookshelf. Dozens of heavy spellbooks came thunder-
ing down on all their heads; there was a yell of, “Get him, Dad!”

from Fred or George; Mrs. Weasley was shrieking, “No, Arthur,
no!”; the crowd stampeded backward, knocking more shelves over;
“Gentlemen, please — please!” cried the assistant, and then, louder
than all —
“Break it up, there, gents, break it up —”

AT FLOURISH AND BLOTTS

 63 

Hagrid was wading toward them through the sea of books. In
an instant he had pulled Mr. Weasley and Mr. Malfoy apart.
Mr. Weasley had a cut lip and Mr. Malfoy had been hit in the eye
by an Encyclopedia of Toadstools. He was still holding Ginny’s old
Transfiguration book. He thrust it at her, his eyes glittering with
malice.
“Here, girl — take your book — it’s the best your father can
give you —” Pulling himself out of Hagrid’s grip he beckoned to
Draco and swept from the shop.
“Yeh should’ve ignored him, Arthur,” said Hagrid, almost lifting
Mr. Weasley off his feet as he straightened his robes. “Rotten ter the
core, the whole family, everyone knows that — no Malfoy’s worth
listenin’ ter — bad blood, that’s what it is — come on now — let’s
get outta here.”
The assistant looked as though he wanted to stop them from
leaving, but he barely came up to Hagrid’s waist and seemed to
think better of it. They hurried up the street, the Grangers shaking
with fright and Mrs. Weasley beside herself with fury.

“A fine example to set for your children . . . brawling in pub-
lic . . . what Gilderoy Lockhart must’ve thought —”

“He was pleased,” said Fred. “Didn’t you hear him as we were
leaving? He was asking that bloke from the Daily Prophet if he’d be
able to work the fight into his report — said it was all publicity —”
But it was a subdued group that headed back to the fireside in

the Leaky Cauldron, where Harry, the Weasleys, and all their shop-
ping would be traveling back to the Burrow using Floo powder.

They said good-bye to the Grangers, who were leaving the pub for
the Muggle street on the other side; Mr. Weasley started to ask

CHAPTER FOUR

 64 

them how bus stops worked, but stopped quickly at the look on
Mrs. Weasley’s face.

Harry took off his glasses and put them safely in his pocket be-
fore helping himself to Floo powder. It definitely wasn’t his favorite

way to travel.

C H A P T E R F I V E

 65 

THE WHOMPING

WILLOW

he end of the summer vacation came too quickly for Harry’s
liking. He was looking forward to getting back to Hogwarts,
but his month at the Burrow had been the happiest of his life. It
was difficult not to feel jealous of Ron when he thought of the
Dursleys and the sort of welcome he could expect next time he
turned up on Privet Drive.
On their last evening, Mrs. Weasley conjured up a sumptuous
dinner that included all of Harry’s favorite things, ending with a
mouthwatering treacle pudding. Fred and George rounded off the
evening with a display of Filibuster fireworks; they filled the
kitchen with red and blue stars that bounced from ceiling to wall
for at least half an hour. Then it was time for a last mug of hot
chocolate and bed.
It took a long while to get started next morning. They were up
at dawn, but somehow they still seemed to have a great deal to do.
T

CHAPTER FIVE

 66 

Mrs. Weasley dashed about in a bad mood looking for spare socks
and quills; people kept colliding on the stairs, half-dressed with bits

of toast in their hands; and Mr. Weasley nearly broke his neck, trip-
ping over a stray chicken as he crossed the yard carrying Ginny’s

trunk to the car.
Harry couldn’t see how eight people, six large trunks, two owls,

and a rat were going to fit into one small Ford Anglia. He had reck-
oned, of course, without the special features that Mr. Weasley had

added.
“Not a word to Molly,” he whispered to Harry as he opened the
trunk and showed him how it had been magically expanded so that
the luggage fitted easily.
When at last they were all in the car, Mrs. Weasley glanced into
the back seat, where Harry, Ron, Fred, George, and Percy were all
sitting comfortably side by side, and said, “Muggles do know more
than we give them credit for, don’t they?” She and Ginny got into
the front seat, which had been stretched so that it resembled a park

bench. “I mean, you’d never know it was this roomy from the out-
side, would you?”

Mr. Weasley started up the engine and they trundled out of the
yard, Harry turning back for a last look at the house. He barely had
time to wonder when he’d see it again when they were back —
George had forgotten his box of Filibuster fireworks. Five minutes
after that, they skidded to a halt in the yard so that Fred could run
in for his broomstick. They had almost reached the highway when

Ginny shrieked that she’d left her diary. By the time she had clam-
bered back into the car, they were running very late, and tempers

were running high.

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 67 

Mr. Weasley glanced at his watch and then at his wife.
“Molly, dear —”
“No, Arthur —”
“No one would see — this little button here is an Invisibility
Booster I installed — that’d get us up in the air — then we fly
above the clouds. We’d be there in ten minutes and no one would
be any the wiser —”
“I said no, Arthur, not in broad daylight —”
They reached King’s Cross at a quarter to eleven. Mr. Weasley
dashed across the road to get trolleys for their trunks and they all
hurried into the station.
Harry had caught the Hogwarts Express the previous year. The
tricky part was getting onto platform nine and three-quarters,
which wasn’t visible to the Muggle eye. What you had to do was
walk through the solid barrier dividing platforms nine and ten. It
didn’t hurt, but it had to be done carefully so that none of the
Muggles noticed you vanishing.
“Percy first,” said Mrs. Weasley, looking nervously at the clock
overhead, which showed they had only five minutes to disappear
casually through the barrier.
Percy strode briskly forward and vanished. Mr. Weasley went
next; Fred and George followed.
“I’ll take Ginny and you two come right after us,” Mrs. Weasley
told Harry and Ron, grabbing Ginny’s hand and setting off. In the
blink of an eye they were gone.
“Let’s go together, we’ve only got a minute,” Ron said to Harry.
Harry made sure that Hedwig’s cage was safely wedged on top of
his trunk and wheeled his trolley around to face the barrier. He felt

CHAPTER FIVE

 68 

perfectly confident; this wasn’t nearly as uncomfortable as using

Floo powder. Both of them bent low over the handles of their trol-
leys and walked purposefully toward the barrier, gathering speed. A

few feet away from it, they broke into a run and —
CRASH.
Both trolleys hit the barrier and bounced backward; Ron’s trunk
fell off with a loud thump, Harry was knocked off his feet, and
Hedwig’s cage bounced onto the shiny floor, and she rolled away,
shrieking indignantly; people all around them stared and a guard
nearby yelled, “What in blazes d’you think you’re doing?”
“Lost control of the trolley,” Harry gasped, clutching his ribs as
he got up. Ron ran to pick up Hedwig, who was causing such a
scene that there was a lot of muttering about cruelty to animals
from the surrounding crowd.
“Why can’t we get through?” Harry hissed to Ron.
“I dunno —”
Ron looked wildly around. A dozen curious people were still
watching them.

“We’re going to miss the train,” Ron whispered. “I don’t under-
stand why the gateway’s sealed itself —”

Harry looked up at the giant clock with a sickening feeling in
the pit of his stomach. Ten seconds . . . nine seconds . . .
He wheeled his trolley forward cautiously until it was right

against the barrier and pushed with all his might. The metal re-
mained solid.

Three seconds . . . two seconds . . . one second . . .
“It’s gone,” said Ron, sounding stunned. “The train’s left. What
if Mum and Dad can’t get back through to us? Have you got any
Muggle money?”

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 69 

Harry gave a hollow laugh. “The Dursleys haven’t given me
pocket money for about six years.”
Ron pressed his ear to the cold barrier.
“Can’t hear a thing,” he said tensely. “What’re we going to do? I
don’t know how long it’ll take Mum and Dad to get back to us.”
They looked around. People were still watching them, mainly
because of Hedwig’s continuing screeches.
“I think we’d better go and wait by the car,” said Harry. “We’re
attracting too much atten —”
“Harry!” said Ron, his eyes gleaming. “The car!”
“What about it?”
“We can fly the car to Hogwarts!”
“But I thought —”
“We’re stuck, right? And we’ve got to get to school, haven’t we?
And even underage wizards are allowed to use magic if it’s a real
emergency, section nineteen or something of the Restriction of
Thingy —”
“But your mum and dad . . .” said Harry, pushing against the
barrier again in the vain hope that it would give way. “How will
they get home?”
“They don’t need the car!” said Ron impatiently. “They know
how to Apparate! You know, just vanish and reappear at home!
They only bother with Floo powder and the car because we’re all
underage and we’re not allowed to Apparate yet. . . .”
Harry’s feeling of panic turned suddenly to excitement.
“Can you fly it?”
“No problem,” said Ron, wheeling his trolley around to face the

exit. “C’mon, let’s go. If we hurry we’ll be able to follow the Hog-
warts Express —”

CHAPTER FIVE

 70 

And they marched off through the crowd of curious Muggles,
out of the station and back onto the side road where the old Ford
Anglia was parked.
Ron unlocked the cavernous trunk with a series of taps from his
wand. They heaved their luggage back in, put Hedwig on the back
seat, and got into the front.
“Check that no one’s watching,” said Ron, starting the ignition

with another tap of his wand. Harry stuck his head out of the win-
dow: Traffic was rumbling along the main road ahead, but their

street was empty.
“Okay,” he said.
Ron pressed a tiny silver button on the dashboard. The car
around them vanished — and so did they. Harry could feel the seat
vibrating beneath him, hear the engine, feel his hands on his knees
and his glasses on his nose, but for all he could see, he had become
a pair of eyeballs, floating a few feet above the ground in a dingy
street full of parked cars.
“Let’s go,” said Ron’s voice from his right.
And the ground and the dirty buildings on either side fell away,

dropping out of sight as the car rose; in seconds, the whole of Lon-
don lay, smoky and glittering, below them.

Then there was a popping noise and the car, Harry, and Ron
reappeared.
“Uh-oh,” said Ron, jabbing at the Invisibility Booster. “It’s
faulty —”
Both of them pummeled it. The car vanished. Then it flickered
back again.
“Hold on!” Ron yelled, and he slammed his foot on the acceler-

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 71 

ator; they shot straight into the low, woolly clouds and everything
turned dull and foggy.
“Now what?” said Harry, blinking at the solid mass of cloud
pressing in on them from all sides.
“We need to see the train to know what direction to go in,” said
Ron.
“Dip back down again — quickly —”
They dropped back beneath the clouds and twisted around in
their seats, squinting at the ground.
“I can see it!” Harry yelled. “Right ahead — there!”
The Hogwarts Express was streaking along below them like a
scarlet snake.
“Due north,” said Ron, checking the compass on the dashboard.
“Okay, we’ll just have to check on it every half hour or so — hold
on —”
And they shot up through the clouds. A minute later, they burst
out into a blaze of sunlight.
It was a different world. The wheels of the car skimmed the sea
of fluffy cloud, the sky a bright, endless blue under the blinding
white sun.
“All we’ve got to worry about now are airplanes,” said Ron.
They looked at each other and started to laugh; for a long time,
they couldn’t stop.
It was as though they had been plunged into a fabulous dream.
This, thought Harry, was surely the only way to travel — past

swirls and turrets of snowy cloud, in a car full of hot, bright sun-
light, with a fat pack of toffees in the glove compartment, and the

prospect of seeing Fred’s and George’s jealous faces when they

CHAPTER FIVE

 72 

landed smoothly and spectacularly on the sweeping lawn in front
of Hogwarts castle.
They made regular checks on the train as they flew farther and

farther north, each dip beneath the clouds showing them a dif-
ferent view. London was soon far behind them, replaced by neat

green fields that gave way in turn to wide, purplish moors, a great
city alive with cars like multicolored ants, villages with tiny toy
churches.
Several uneventful hours later, however, Harry had to admit that

some of the fun was wearing off. The toffees had made them ex-
tremely thirsty and they had nothing to drink. He and Ron had

pulled off their sweaters, but Harry’s T-shirt was sticking to the
back of his seat and his glasses kept sliding down to the end of his
sweaty nose. He had stopped noticing the fantastic cloud shapes
now and was thinking longingly of the train miles below, where
you could buy ice-cold pumpkin juice from a trolley pushed by a
plump witch. Why hadn’t they been able to get onto platform nine
and three-quarters?
“Can’t be much further, can it?” croaked Ron, hours later still, as
the sun started to sink into their floor of cloud, staining it a deep
pink. “Ready for another check on the train?”
It was still right below them, winding its way past a snowcapped
mountain. It was much darker beneath the canopy of clouds.
Ron put his foot on the accelerator and drove them upward
again, but as he did so, the engine began to whine.
Harry and Ron exchanged nervous glances.

“It’s probably just tired,” said Ron. “It’s never been this far be-
fore. . . .”

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 73 

And they both pretended not to notice the whining growing
louder and louder as the sky became steadily darker. Stars were

blossoming in the blackness. Harry pulled his sweater back on, try-
ing to ignore the way the windshield wipers were now waving fee-
bly, as though in protest.

“Not far,” said Ron, more to the car than to Harry, “not far
now,” and he patted the dashboard nervously.
When they flew back beneath the clouds a little while later, they
had to squint through the darkness for a landmark they knew.
“There!” Harry shouted, making Ron and Hedwig jump.
“Straight ahead!”
Silhouetted on the dark horizon, high on the cliff over the lake,
stood the many turrets and towers of Hogwarts castle.
But the car had begun to shudder and was losing speed.

“Come on,” Ron said cajolingly, giving the steering wheel a lit-
tle shake, “nearly there, come on —”

The engine groaned. Narrow jets of steam were issuing from un-
der the hood. Harry found himself gripping the edges of his seat

very hard as they flew toward the lake.
The car gave a nasty wobble. Glancing out of his window, Harry
saw the smooth, black, glassy surface of the water, a mile below.
Ron’s knuckles were white on the steering wheel. The car wobbled
again.
“Come on,” Ron muttered.
They were over the lake — the castle was right ahead — Ron
put his foot down.

There was a loud clunk, a splutter, and the engine died com-
pletely.

CHAPTER FIVE

 74 
“Uh-oh,” said Ron, into the silence.
The nose of the car dropped. They were falling, gathering speed,
heading straight for the solid castle wall.
“Noooooo!” Ron yelled, swinging the steering wheel around; they
missed the dark stone wall by inches as the car turned in a great arc,
soaring over the dark greenhouses, then the vegetable patch, and
then out over the black lawns, losing altitude all the time.
Ron let go of the steering wheel completely and pulled his wand
out of his back pocket —
“STOP! STOP!” he yelled, whacking the dashboard and the
windshield, but they were still plummeting, the ground flying up
toward them —
“WATCH OUT FOR THAT TREE!” Harry bellowed, lunging
for the steering wheel, but too late —
CRUNCH.
With an earsplitting bang of metal on wood, they hit the thick
tree trunk and dropped to the ground with a heavy jolt. Steam was
billowing from under the crumpled hood; Hedwig was shrieking in
terror; a golf-ball-sized lump was throbbing on Harry’s head where

he had hit the windshield; and to his right, Ron let out a low, de-
spairing groan.

“Are you okay?” Harry said urgently.
“My wand,” said Ron, in a shaky voice. “Look at my wand —”
It had snapped, almost in two; the tip was dangling limply, held
on by a few splinters.
Harry opened his mouth to say he was sure they’d be able to
mend it up at the school, but he never even got started. At that very
moment, something hit his side of the car with the force of a

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 75 

charging bull, sending him lurching sideways into Ron, just as an
equally heavy blow hit the roof.
“What’s happen — ?”
Ron gasped, staring through the windshield, and Harry looked
around just in time to see a branch as thick as a python smash into

it. The tree they had hit was attacking them. Its trunk was bent al-
most double, and its gnarled boughs were pummeling every inch of

the car it could reach.
“Aaargh!” said Ron as another twisted limb punched a large dent
into his door; the windshield was now trembling under a hail of
blows from knuckle-like twigs and a branch as thick as a battering

ram was pounding furiously on the roof, which seemed to be cav-
ing —

“Run for it!” Ron shouted, throwing his full weight against his
door, but next second he had been knocked backward into Harry’s
lap by a vicious uppercut from another branch.
“We’re done for!” he moaned as the ceiling sagged, but suddenly
the floor of the car was vibrating — the engine had restarted.
“Reverse!” Harry yelled, and the car shot backward; the tree was

still trying to hit them; they could hear its roots creaking as it al-
most ripped itself up, lashing out at them as they sped out of reach.

“That,” panted Ron, “was close. Well done, car —”
The car, however, had reached the end of its tether. With two

sharp clunks, the doors flew open and Harry felt his seat tip side-
ways: Next thing he knew he was sprawled on the damp ground.

Loud thuds told him that the car was ejecting their luggage from
the trunk; Hedwig’s cage flew through the air and burst open; she
rose out of it with an angry screech and sped off toward the castle

CHAPTER FIVE

 76 

without a backward look. Then, dented, scratched, and steaming,
the car rumbled off into the darkness, its rear lights blazing angrily.
“Come back!” Ron yelled after it, brandishing his broken wand.
“Dad’ll kill me!”
But the car disappeared from view with one last snort from its
exhaust.
“Can you believe our luck?” said Ron miserably, bending down
to pick up Scabbers. “Of all the trees we could’ve hit, we had to get
one that hits back.”
He glanced over his shoulder at the ancient tree, which was still
flailing its branches threateningly.
“Come on,” said Harry wearily, “we’d better get up to the
school. . . .”
It wasn’t at all the triumphant arrival they had pictured. Stiff,
cold, and bruised, they seized the ends of their trunks and began
dragging them up the grassy slope, toward the great oak front
doors.
“I think the feast’s already started,” said Ron, dropping his trunk
at the foot of the front steps and crossing quietly to look through a
brightly lit window. “Hey — Harry — come and look — it’s the
Sorting!”
Harry hurried over and, together, he and Ron peered in at the
Great Hall.
Innumerable candles were hovering in midair over four long,
crowded tables, making the golden plates and goblets sparkle.
Overhead, the bewitched ceiling, which always mirrored the sky
outside, sparkled with stars.
Through the forest of pointed black Hogwarts hats, Harry saw a
long line of scared-looking first years filing into the Hall. Ginny

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 77 

was among them, easily visible because of her vivid Weasley hair.
Meanwhile, Professor McGonagall, a bespectacled witch with her
hair in a tight bun, was placing the famous Hogwarts Sorting Hat
on a stool before the newcomers.
Every year, this aged old hat, patched, frayed, and dirty, sorted

new students into the four Hogwarts houses (Gryffindor, Huf-
flepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytherin). Harry well remembered putting

it on, exactly one year ago, and waiting, petrified, for its decision as
it muttered aloud in his ear. For a few horrible seconds he had
feared that the hat was going to put him in Slytherin, the House
that had turned out more Dark witches and wizards than any
other — but he had ended up in Gryffindor, along with Ron,
Hermione, and the rest of the Weasleys. Last term, Harry and Ron
had helped Gryffindor win the House Championship, beating
Slytherin for the first time in seven years.
A very small, mousy-haired boy had been called forward to place

the hat on his head. Harry’s eyes wandered past him to where Pro-
fessor Dumbledore, the headmaster, sat watching the Sorting from

the staff table, his long silver beard and half-moon glasses shining
brightly in the candlelight. Several seats along, Harry saw Gilderoy
Lockhart, dressed in robes of aquamarine. And there at the end was
Hagrid, huge and hairy, drinking deeply from his goblet.
“Hang on . . .” Harry muttered to Ron. “There’s an empty chair
at the staff table. . . . Where’s Snape?”
Professor Severus Snape was Harry’s least favorite teacher. Harry
also happened to be Snape’s least favorite student. Cruel, sarcastic,
and disliked by everybody except the students from his own House
(Slytherin), Snape taught Potions.
“Maybe he’s ill!” said Ron hopefully.

CHAPTER FIVE

 78 

“Maybe he’s left,” said Harry, “because he missed out on the De-
fense Against the Dark Arts job again!”

“Or he might have been sacked!” said Ron enthusiastically. “I
mean, everyone hates him —”
“Or maybe,” said a very cold voice right behind them, “he’s
waiting to hear why you two didn’t arrive on the school train.”
Harry spun around. There, his black robes rippling in a cold
breeze, stood Severus Snape. He was a thin man with sallow skin, a
hooked nose, and greasy, shoulder-length black hair, and at this
moment, he was smiling in a way that told Harry he and Ron were
in very deep trouble.
“Follow me,” said Snape.
Not daring even to look at each other, Harry and Ron followed
Snape up the steps into the vast, echoing entrance hall, which was
lit with flaming torches. A delicious smell of food was wafting from
the Great Hall, but Snape led them away from the warmth and
light, down a narrow stone staircase that led into the dungeons.
“In!” he said, opening a door halfway down the cold passageway
and pointing.
They entered Snape’s office, shivering. The shadowy walls were
lined with shelves of large glass jars, in which floated all manner of
revolting things Harry didn’t really want to know the name of at
the moment. The fireplace was dark and empty. Snape closed the
door and turned to look at them.
“So,” he said softly, “the train isn’t good enough for the famous
Harry Potter and his faithful sidekick, Weasley. Wanted to arrive
with a bang, did we, boys?”
“No, sir, it was the barrier at King’s Cross, it —”

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 79 

“Silence!” said Snape coldly. “What have you done with the
car?”
Ron gulped. This wasn’t the first time Snape had given Harry the

impression of being able to read minds. But a moment later, he un-
derstood, as Snape unrolled today’s issue of the Evening Prophet.

“You were seen,” he hissed, showing them the headline: FLY-
ING FORD ANGLIA MYSTIFIES MUGGLES. He began to read

aloud: “Two Muggles in London, convinced they saw an old car
flying over the Post Office tower . . . at noon in Norfolk, Mrs.
Hetty Bayliss, while hanging out her washing . . . Mr. Angus Fleet,

of Peebles, reported to police . . . Six or seven Muggles in all. I be-
lieve your father works in the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office?”

he said, looking up at Ron and smiling still more nastily. “Dear,
dear . . . his own son . . .”
Harry felt as though he’d just been walloped in the stomach by
one of the mad tree’s larger branches. If anyone found out Mr.
Weasley had bewitched the car . . . he hadn’t thought of that. . . .
“I noticed, in my search of the park, that considerable damage
seems to have been done to a very valuable Whomping Willow,”
Snape went on.
“That tree did more damage to us than we —” Ron blurted out.
“Silence!” snapped Snape again. “Most unfortunately, you are
not in my House and the decision to expel you does not rest with
me. I shall go and fetch the people who do have that happy power.
You will wait here.”
Harry and Ron stared at each other, white-faced. Harry didn’t
feel hungry anymore. He now felt extremely sick. He tried not to
look at a large, slimy something suspended in green liquid on a

CHAPTER FIVE

 80 

shelf behind Snape’s desk. If Snape had gone to fetch Professor

McGonagall, head of Gryffindor House, they were hardly any bet-
ter off. She might be fairer than Snape, but she was still extremely

strict.

Ten minutes later, Snape returned, and sure enough it was Pro-
fessor McGonagall who accompanied him. Harry had seen Profes-
sor McGonagall angry on several occasions, but either he had

forgotten just how thin her mouth could go, or he had never seen
her this angry before. She raised her wand the moment she entered;
Harry and Ron both flinched, but she merely pointed it at the
empty fireplace, where flames suddenly erupted.
“Sit,” she said, and they both backed into chairs by the fire.
“Explain,” she said, her glasses glinting ominously.

Ron launched into the story, starting with the barrier at the sta-
tion refusing to let them through.

“— so we had no choice, Professor, we couldn’t get on the
train.”
“Why didn’t you send us a letter by owl? I believe you have an
owl?” Professor McGonagall said coldly to Harry.
Harry gaped at her. Now she’d said it, that seemed the obvious
thing to have done.
“I — I didn’t think —”
“That,” said Professor McGonagall, “is obvious.”
There was a knock on the office door and Snape, now looking
happier than ever, opened it. There stood the headmaster, Professor
Dumbledore.

Harry’s whole body went numb. Dumbledore was looking un-
usually grave. He stared down his very crooked nose at them, and

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 81 

Harry suddenly found himself wishing he and Ron were still being
beaten up by the Whomping Willow.

There was a long silence. Then Dumbledore said, “Please ex-
plain why you did this.”

It would have been better if he had shouted. Harry hated the dis-
appointment in his voice. For some reason, he was unable to look

Dumbledore in the eyes, and spoke instead to his knees. He told

Dumbledore everything except that Mr. Weasley owned the be-
witched car, making it sound as though he and Ron had happened

to find a flying car parked outside the station. He knew Dumble-
dore would see through this at once, but Dumbledore asked no

questions about the car. When Harry had finished, he merely con-
tinued to peer at them through his spectacles.

“We’ll go and get our stuff,” said Ron in a hopeless sort of voice.

“What are you talking about, Weasley?” barked Professor Mc-
Gonagall.

“Well, you’re expelling us, aren’t you?” said Ron.
Harry looked quickly at Dumbledore.

“Not today, Mr. Weasley,” said Dumbledore. “But I must im-
press upon both of you the seriousness of what you have done. I

will be writing to both your families tonight. I must also warn you
that if you do anything like this again, I will have no choice but to
expel you.”
Snape looked as though Christmas had been canceled. He
cleared his throat and said, “Professor Dumbledore, these boys
have flouted the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Wizardry,
caused serious damage to an old and valuable tree — surely acts of
this nature —”

CHAPTER FIVE

 82 

“It will be for Professor McGonagall to decide on these boys’
punishments, Severus,” said Dumbledore calmly. “They are in her
House and are therefore her responsibility.” He turned to Professor
McGonagall. “I must go back to the feast, Minerva, I’ve got to give

out a few notices. Come, Severus, there’s a delicious-looking cus-
tard tart I want to sample —”

Snape shot a look of pure venom at Harry and Ron as he allowed

himself to be swept out of his office, leaving them alone with Pro-
fessor McGonagall, who was still eyeing them like a wrathful eagle.

“You’d better get along to the hospital wing, Weasley, you’re
bleeding.”
“Not much,” said Ron, hastily wiping the cut over his eye with
his sleeve. “Professor, I wanted to watch my sister being Sorted —”
“The Sorting Ceremony is over,” said Professor McGonagall.
“Your sister is also in Gryffindor.”
“Oh, good,” said Ron.
“And speaking of Gryffindor —” Professor McGonagall said
sharply, but Harry cut in: “Professor, when we took the car, term
hadn’t started, so — so Gryffindor shouldn’t really have points
taken from it — should it?” he finished, watching her anxiously.
Professor McGonagall gave him a piercing look, but he was sure
she had almost smiled. Her mouth looked less thin, anyway.
“I will not take any points from Gryffindor,” she said, and

Harry’s heart lightened considerably. “But you will both get a de-
tention.”

It was better than Harry had expected. As for Dumbledore’s
writing to the Dursleys, that was nothing. Harry knew perfectly
well they’d just be disappointed that the Whomping Willow hadn’t
squashed him flat.

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 83 

Professor McGonagall raised her wand again and pointed it at
Snape’s desk. A large plate of sandwiches, two silver goblets, and a
jug of iced pumpkin juice appeared with a pop.
“You will eat in here and then go straight up to your dormitory,”
she said. “I must also return to the feast.”
When the door had closed behind her, Ron let out a long, low
whistle.
“I thought we’d had it,” he said, grabbing a sandwich.
“So did I,” said Harry, taking one, too.
“Can you believe our luck, though?” said Ron thickly through a
mouthful of chicken and ham. “Fred and George must’ve flown

that car five or six times and no Muggle ever saw them.” He swal-
lowed and took another huge bite. “Why couldn’t we get through

the barrier?”
Harry shrugged. “We’ll have to watch our step from now on,
though,” he said, taking a grateful swig of pumpkin juice. “Wish
we could’ve gone up to the feast. . . .”
“She didn’t want us showing off,” said Ron sagely. “Doesn’t want
people to think it’s clever, arriving by flying car.”
When they had eaten as many sandwiches as they could (the
plate kept refilling itself), they rose and left the office, treading the
familiar path to Gryffindor Tower. The castle was quiet; it seemed
that the feast was over. They walked past muttering portraits and
creaking suits of armor, and climbed narrow flights of stone stairs,
until at last they reached the passage where the secret entrance to
Gryffindor Tower was hidden, behind an oil painting of a very fat
woman in a pink silk dress.
“Password?” she said as they approached.
“Er —” said Harry.

CHAPTER FIVE

 84 

They didn’t know the new year’s password, not having met a
Gryffindor prefect yet, but help came almost immediately; they
heard hurrying feet behind them and turned to see Hermione
dashing toward them.

“There you are! Where have you been? The most ridiculous ru-
mors — someone said you’d been expelled for crashing a flying

car —”
“Well, we haven’t been expelled,” Harry assured her.

“You’re not telling me you did fly here?” said Hermione, sound-
ing almost as severe as Professor McGonagall.

“Skip the lecture,” said Ron impatiently, “and tell us the new
password.”
“It’s ‘wattlebird,’ ” said Hermione impatiently, “but that’s not
the point —”
Her words were cut short, however, as the portrait of the fat lady
swung open and there was a sudden storm of clapping. It looked
as though the whole of Gryffindor House was still awake, packed
into the circular common room, standing on the lopsided tables
and squashy armchairs, waiting for them to arrive. Arms reached
through the portrait hole to pull Harry and Ron inside, leaving
Hermione to scramble in after them.

“Brilliant!” yelled Lee Jordan. “Inspired! What an entrance! Fly-
ing a car right into the Whomping Willow, people’ll be talking

about that one for years —”
“Good for you,” said a fifth year Harry had never spoken to;
someone was patting him on the back as though he’d just won a
marathon; Fred and George pushed their way to the front of the
crowd and said together, “Why couldn’t we’ve come in the car, eh?”

THE WHOMPING WILLOW

 85 

Ron was scarlet in the face, grinning embarrassedly, but Harry
could see one person who didn’t look happy at all. Percy was visible

over the heads of some excited first years, and he seemed to be try-
ing to get near enough to start telling them off. Harry nudged Ron

in the ribs and nodded in Percy’s direction. Ron got the point at
once.
“Got to get upstairs — bit tired,” he said, and the two of them
started pushing their way toward the door on the other side of the
room, which led to a spiral staircase and the dormitories.
“ ’Night,” Harry called back to Hermione, who was wearing a
scowl just like Percy’s.
They managed to get to the other side of the common room,

still having their backs slapped, and gained the peace of the stair-
case. They hurried up it, right to the top, and at last reached the

door of their old dormitory, which now had a sign on it saying
second years. They entered the familiar, circular room, with its

five four-posters hung with red velvet and its high, narrow win-
dows. Their trunks had been brought up for them and stood at the

ends of their beds.
Ron grinned guiltily at Harry.
“I know I shouldn’t’ve enjoyed that or anything, but —”
The dormitory door flew open and in came the other second
year Gryffindor boys, Seamus Finnigan, Dean Thomas, and
Neville Longbottom.
“Unbelievable!” beamed Seamus.
“Cool,” said Dean.
“Amazing,” said Neville, awestruck.
Harry couldn’t help it. He grinned, too.

C H A P T E R S I X

 86 

GILDEROY LOCKHART

he next day, however, Harry barely grinned once. Things
started to go downhill from breakfast in the Great Hall. The
four long House tables were laden with tureens of porridge, plates

of kippers, mountains of toast, and dishes of eggs and bacon, be-
neath the enchanted ceiling (today, a dull, cloudy gray). Harry and

Ron sat down at the Gryffindor table next to Hermione, who had
her copy of Voyages with Vampires propped open against a milk jug.
There was a slight stiffness in the way she said “ ’Morning,” which

told Harry that she was still disapproving of the way they had ar-
rived. Neville Longbottom, on the other hand, greeted them cheer-
fully. Neville was a round-faced and accident-prone boy with the

worst memory of anyone Harry had ever met.
“Mail’s due any minute — I think Gran’s sending a few things I
forgot.”
Harry had only just started his porridge when, sure enough,
there was a rushing sound overhead and a hundred or so owls
T

GILDEROY LOCKHART

 87 

streamed in, circling the hall and dropping letters and packages
into the chattering crowd. A big, lumpy package bounced off
Neville’s head and, a second later, something large and gray fell into
Hermione’s jug, spraying them all with milk and feathers.

“Errol!” said Ron, pulling the bedraggled owl out by the feet. Er-
rol slumped, unconscious, onto the table, his legs in the air and a

damp red envelope in his beak.
“Oh, no —” Ron gasped.
“It’s all right, he’s still alive,” said Hermione, prodding Errol
gently with the tip of her finger.
“It’s not that — it’s that.”
Ron was pointing at the red envelope. It looked quite ordinary
to Harry, but Ron and Neville were both looking at it as though
they expected it to explode.
“What’s the matter?” said Harry.
“She’s — she’s sent me a Howler,” said Ron faintly.
“You’d better open it, Ron,” said Neville in a timid whisper. “It’ll
be worse if you don’t. My gran sent me one once, and I ignored it
and” — he gulped — “it was horrible.”
Harry looked from their petrified faces to the red envelope.
“What’s a Howler?” he said.

But Ron’s whole attention was fixed on the letter, which had be-
gun to smoke at the corners.

“Open it,” Neville urged. “It’ll all be over in a few minutes —”

Ron stretched out a shaking hand, eased the envelope from Er-
rol’s beak, and slit it open. Neville stuffed his fingers in his ears. A

split second later, Harry knew why. He thought for a moment it
had exploded; a roar of sound filled the huge hall, shaking dust
from the ceiling.