CHAPTER ELEVEN

 188 

“If I ever find out who threw this,” Snape whispered, “I shall
make sure that person is expelled.”

Harry arranged his face into what he hoped was a puzzled ex-
pression. Snape was looking right at him, and the bell that rang ten

minutes later could not have been more welcome.
“He knew it was me,” Harry told Ron and Hermione as they
hurried back to Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. “I could tell.”

Hermione threw the new ingredients into the cauldron and be-
gan to stir feverishly.

“It’ll be ready in two weeks,” she said happily.
“Snape can’t prove it was you,” said Ron reassuringly to Harry.
“What can he do?”
“Knowing Snape, something foul,” said Harry as the potion
frothed and bubbled.
A week later, Harry, Ron, and Hermione were walking across the
entrance hall when they saw a small knot of people gathered
around the notice board, reading a piece of parchment that had

just been pinned up. Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas beck-
oned them over, looking excited.

“They’re starting a Dueling Club!” said Seamus. “First meeting
tonight! I wouldn’t mind dueling lessons; they might come in
handy one of these days. . . .”
“What, you reckon Slytherin’s monster can duel?” said Ron, but
he, too, read the sign with interest.
“Could be useful,” he said to Harry and Hermione as they went
into dinner. “Shall we go?”
Harry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight o’clock that

THE DUELING CLUB

 189 

evening they hurried back to the Great Hall. The long dining tables
had vanished and a golden stage had appeared along one wall, lit by
thousands of candles floating overhead. The ceiling was velvety

black once more and most of the school seemed to be packed be-
neath it, all carrying their wands and looking excited.

“I wonder who’ll be teaching us?” said Hermione as they edged

into the chattering crowd. “Someone told me Flitwick was a duel-
ing champion when he was young — maybe it’ll be him.”

“As long as it’s not —” Harry began, but he ended on a groan:
Gilderoy Lockhart was walking onto the stage, resplendent in robes
of deep plum and accompanied by none other than Snape, wearing
his usual black.
Lockhart waved an arm for silence and called, “Gather round,

gather round! Can everyone see me? Can you all hear me? Excel-
lent!

“Now, Professor Dumbledore has granted me permission to start

this little dueling club, to train you all in case you ever need to de-
fend yourselves as I myself have done on countless occasions — for

full details, see my published works.
“Let me introduce my assistant, Professor Snape,” said Lockhart,
flashing a wide smile. “He tells me he knows a tiny little bit about
dueling himself and has sportingly agreed to help me with a short
demonstration before we begin. Now, I don’t want any of you
youngsters to worry — you’ll still have your Potions master when
I’m through with him, never fear!”

“Wouldn’t it be good if they finished each other off?” Ron mut-
tered in Harry’s ear.

Snape’s upper lip was curling. Harry wondered why Lockhart

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 190 

was still smiling; if Snape had been looking at him like that he’d
have been running as fast as he could in the opposite direction.
Lockhart and Snape turned to face each other and bowed; at
least, Lockhart did, with much twirling of his hands, whereas
Snape jerked his head irritably. Then they raised their wands like
swords in front of them.

“As you see, we are holding our wands in the accepted combat-
ive position,” Lockhart told the silent crowd. “On the count of

three, we will cast our first spells. Neither of us will be aiming to
kill, of course.”

“I wouldn’t bet on that,” Harry murmured, watching Snape bar-
ing his teeth.

“One — two — three —”
Both of them swung their wands above their heads and pointed
them at their opponent; Snape cried: “Expelliarmus!” There was a
dazzling flash of scarlet light and Lockhart was blasted off his feet:
He flew backward off the stage, smashed into the wall, and slid
down it to sprawl on the floor.
Malfoy and some of the other Slytherins cheered. Hermione was
dancing on tiptoes. “Do you think he’s all right?” she squealed
through her fingers.
“Who cares?” said Harry and Ron together.
Lockhart was getting unsteadily to his feet. His hat had fallen off
and his wavy hair was standing on end.

“Well, there you have it!” he said, tottering back onto the plat-
form. “That was a Disarming Charm — as you see, I’ve lost my

wand — ah, thank you, Miss Brown — yes, an excellent idea to
show them that, Professor Snape, but if you don’t mind my saying

THE DUELING CLUB

 191 

so, it was very obvious what you were about to do. If I had wanted
to stop you it would have been only too easy — however, I felt it
would be instructive to let them see . . .”
Snape was looking murderous. Possibly Lockhart had noticed,
because he said, “Enough demonstrating! I’m going to come
amongst you now and put you all into pairs. Professor Snape, if
you’d like to help me —”

They moved through the crowd, matching up partners. Lock-
hart teamed Neville with Justin Finch-Fletchley, but Snape reached

Harry and Ron first.
“Time to split up the dream team, I think,” he sneered.
“Weasley, you can partner Finnigan. Potter —”
Harry moved automatically toward Hermione.
“I don’t think so,” said Snape, smiling coldly. “Mr. Malfoy, come
over here. Let’s see what you make of the famous Potter. And you,
Miss Granger — you can partner Miss Bulstrode.”
Malfoy strutted over, smirking. Behind him walked a Slytherin
girl who reminded Harry of a picture he’d seen in Holidays with

Hags. She was large and square and her heavy jaw jutted aggres-
sively. Hermione gave her a weak smile that she did not return.

“Face your partners!” called Lockhart, back on the platform.
“And bow!”
Harry and Malfoy barely inclined their heads, not taking their
eyes off each other.
“Wands at the ready!” shouted Lockhart. “When I count to

three, cast your charms to disarm your opponents — only to dis-
arm them — we don’t want any accidents — one . . . two . . .

three —”

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 192 

Harry swung his wand high, but Malfoy had already started on
“two”: His spell hit Harry so hard he felt as though he’d been hit
over the head with a saucepan. He stumbled, but everything still
seemed to be working, and wasting no more time, Harry pointed
his wand straight at Malfoy and shouted, “Rictusempra!”
A jet of silver light hit Malfoy in the stomach and he doubled
up, wheezing.
“I said disarm only!” Lockhart shouted in alarm over the heads
of the battling crowd, as Malfoy sank to his knees; Harry had hit

him with a Tickling Charm, and he could barely move for laugh-
ing. Harry hung back, with a vague feeling it would be unsporting

to bewitch Malfoy while he was on the floor, but this was a mis-
take; gasping for breath, Malfoy pointed his wand at Harry’s knees,

choked, “Tarantallegra!” and the next second Harry’s legs began to
jerk around out of his control in a kind of quickstep.
“Stop! Stop!” screamed Lockhart, but Snape took charge.
“Finite Incantatem!” he shouted; Harry’s feet stopped dancing,
Malfoy stopped laughing, and they were able to look up.
A haze of greenish smoke was hovering over the scene. Both

Neville and Justin were lying on the floor, panting; Ron was hold-
ing up an ashen-faced Seamus, apologizing for whatever his broken

wand had done; but Hermione and Millicent Bulstrode were still
moving; Millicent had Hermione in a headlock and Hermione was
whimpering in pain; both their wands lay forgotten on the floor.
Harry leapt forward and pulled Millicent off. It was difficult: She
was a lot bigger than he was.

“Dear, dear,” said Lockhart, skittering through the crowd, look-
ing at the aftermath of the duels. “Up you go, Macmillan. . . .

THE DUELING CLUB

 193 

Careful there, Miss Fawcett. . . . Pinch it hard, it’ll stop bleeding in
a second, Boot —
“I think I’d better teach you how to block unfriendly spells,” said
Lockhart, standing flustered in the midst of the hall. He glanced at
Snape, whose black eyes glinted, and looked quickly away. “Let’s
have a volunteer pair — Longbottom and Finch-Fletchley, how
about you —”
“A bad idea, Professor Lockhart,” said Snape, gliding over like a
large and malevolent bat. “Longbottom causes devastation with the
simplest spells. We’ll be sending what’s left of Finch-Fletchley up to
the hospital wing in a matchbox.” Neville’s round, pink face went
pinker. “How about Malfoy and Potter?” said Snape with a twisted
smile.
“Excellent idea!” said Lockhart, gesturing Harry and Malfoy
into the middle of the hall as the crowd backed away to give them
room.
“Now, Harry,” said Lockhart. “When Draco points his wand at
you, you do this.”

He raised his own wand, attempted a complicated sort of wig-
gling action, and dropped it. Snape smirked as Lockhart quickly

picked it up, saying, “Whoops — my wand is a little overex-
cited —”

Snape moved closer to Malfoy, bent down, and whispered some-
thing in his ear. Malfoy smirked, too. Harry looked up nervously at

Lockhart and said, “Professor, could you show me that blocking
thing again?”
“Scared?” muttered Malfoy, so that Lockhart couldn’t hear him.
“You wish,” said Harry out of the corner of his mouth.

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 194 

Lockhart cuffed Harry merrily on the shoulder. “Just do what I
did, Harry!”
“What, drop my wand?”
But Lockhart wasn’t listening.
“Three — two — one — go!” he shouted.
Malfoy raised his wand quickly and bellowed, “Serpensortia!”
The end of his wand exploded. Harry watched, aghast, as a long
black snake shot out of it, fell heavily onto the floor between them,
and raised itself, ready to strike. There were screams as the crowd
backed swiftly away, clearing the floor.
“Don’t move, Potter,” said Snape lazily, clearly enjoying the sight
of Harry standing motionless, eye to eye with the angry snake. “I’ll
get rid of it. . . .”
“Allow me!” shouted Lockhart. He brandished his wand at the
snake and there was a loud bang; the snake, instead of vanishing,
flew ten feet into the air and fell back to the floor with a loud
smack. Enraged, hissing furiously, it slithered straight toward
Justin Finch-Fletchley and raised itself again, fangs exposed, poised
to strike.
Harry wasn’t sure what made him do it. He wasn’t even aware of
deciding to do it. All he knew was that his legs were carrying him

forward as though he was on casters and that he had shouted stu-
pidly at the snake, “Leave him alone!” And miraculously — inex-
plicably — the snake slumped to the floor, docile as a thick, black

garden hose, its eyes now on Harry. Harry felt the fear drain out of
him. He knew the snake wouldn’t attack anyone now, though how
he knew it, he couldn’t have explained.
He looked up at Justin, grinning, expecting to see Justin looking

THE DUELING CLUB

 195 

relieved, or puzzled, or even grateful — but certainly not angry
and scared.
“What do you think you’re playing at?” he shouted, and before
Harry could say anything, Justin had turned and stormed out of the
hall.
Snape stepped forward, waved his wand, and the snake vanished
in a small puff of black smoke. Snape, too, was looking at Harry in
an unexpected way: It was a shrewd and calculating look, and Harry
didn’t like it. He was also dimly aware of an ominous muttering all
around the walls. Then he felt a tugging on the back of his robes.
“Come on,” said Ron’s voice in his ear. “Move — come on —”
Ron steered him out of the hall, Hermione hurrying alongside
them. As they went through the doors, the people on either side
drew away as though they were frightened of catching something.
Harry didn’t have a clue what was going on, and neither Ron nor
Hermione explained anything until they had dragged him all the
way up to the empty Gryffindor common room. Then Ron pushed
Harry into an armchair and said, “You’re a Parselmouth. Why
didn’t you tell us?”
“I’m a what?” said Harry.
“A Parselmouth!” said Ron. “You can talk to snakes!”
“I know,” said Harry. “I mean, that’s only the second time I’ve

ever done it. I accidentally set a boa constrictor on my cousin Dud-
ley at the zoo once — long story — but it was telling me it had

never seen Brazil and I sort of set it free without meaning to —
that was before I knew I was a wizard —”

“A boa constrictor told you it had never seen Brazil?” Ron re-
peated faintly.

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 196 

“So?” said Harry. “I bet loads of people here can do it.”
“Oh, no they can’t,” said Ron. “It’s not a very common gift.
Harry, this is bad.”
“What’s bad?” said Harry, starting to feel quite angry. “What’s

wrong with everyone? Listen, if I hadn’t told that snake not to at-
tack Justin —”

“Oh, that’s what you said to it?”
“What d’you mean? You were there — you heard me —”
“I heard you speaking Parseltongue,” said Ron. “Snake language.

You could have been saying anything — no wonder Justin pan-
icked, you sounded like you were egging the snake on or some-
thing — it was creepy, you know —”

Harry gaped at him.
“I spoke a different language? But — I didn’t realize — how can
I speak a language without knowing I can speak it?”
Ron shook his head. Both he and Hermione were looking as
though someone had died. Harry couldn’t see what was so terrible.
“D’you want to tell me what’s wrong with stopping a massive
snake biting off Justin’s head?” he said. “What does it matter how I
did it as long as Justin doesn’t have to join the Headless Hunt?”
“It matters,” said Hermione, speaking at last in a hushed voice,
“because being able to talk to snakes was what Salazar Slytherin was
famous for. That’s why the symbol of Slytherin House is a serpent.”
Harry’s mouth fell open.
“Exactly,” said Ron. “And now the whole school’s going to think
you’re his great-great-great-great-grandson or something —”
“But I’m not,” said Harry, with a panic he couldn’t quite explain.
“You’ll find that hard to prove,” said Hermione. “He lived about
a thousand years ago; for all we know, you could be.”

THE DUELING CLUB

 197 
  

Harry lay awake for hours that night. Through a gap in the cur-
tains around his four-poster he watched snow starting to drift past

the tower window and wondered . . .
Could he be a descendant of Salazar Slytherin? He didn’t know

anything about his father’s family, after all. The Dursleys had al-
ways forbidden questions about his wizarding relatives.

Quietly, Harry tried to say something in Parseltongue. The
words wouldn’t come. It seemed he had to be face-to-face with a
snake to do it.
But I’m in Gryffindor, Harry thought. The Sorting Hat wouldn’t
have put me in here if I had Slytherin blood. . . .
Ah, said a nasty little voice in his brain, but the Sorting Hat
wanted to put you in Slytherin, don’t you remember?
Harry turned over. He’d see Justin the next day in Herbology
and he’d explain that he’d been calling the snake off, not egging it
on, which (he thought angrily, pummeling his pillow) any fool
should have realized.
By next morning, however, the snow that had begun in the night
had turned into a blizzard so thick that the last Herbology lesson of
the term was canceled: Professor Sprout wanted to fit socks and
scarves on the Mandrakes, a tricky operation she would entrust to
no one else, now that it was so important for the Mandrakes to
grow quickly and revive Mrs. Norris and Colin Creevey.

Harry fretted about this next to the fire in the Gryffindor com-
mon room, while Ron and Hermione used their time off to play a

game of wizard chess.
“For heaven’s sake, Harry,” said Hermione, exasperated, as one

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 198 

of Ron’s bishops wrestled her knight off his horse and dragged him
off the board. “Go and find Justin if it’s so important to you.”
So Harry got up and left through the portrait hole, wondering
where Justin might be.
The castle was darker than it usually was in daytime because of
the thick, swirling gray snow at every window. Shivering, Harry
walked past classrooms where lessons were taking place, catching
snatches of what was happening within. Professor McGonagall was
shouting at someone who, by the sound of it, had turned his friend
into a badger. Resisting the urge to take a look, Harry walked on
by, thinking that Justin might be using his free time to catch up on
some work, and deciding to check the library first.
A group of the Hufflepuffs who should have been in Herbology
were indeed sitting at the back of the library, but they didn’t seem
to be working. Between the long lines of high bookshelves, Harry

could see that their heads were close together and they were hav-
ing what looked like an absorbing conversation. He couldn’t see

whether Justin was among them. He was walking toward them
when something of what they were saying met his ears, and he
paused to listen, hidden in the Invisibility section.
“So anyway,” a stout boy was saying, “I told Justin to hide up in
our dormitory. I mean to say, if Potter’s marked him down as his
next victim, it’s best if he keeps a low profile for a while. Of course,
Justin’s been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he
let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born. Justin actually told him he’d
been down for Eton. That’s not the kind of thing you bandy about
with Slytherin’s heir on the loose, is it?”
“You definitely think it is Potter, then, Ernie?” said a girl with
blonde pigtails anxiously.

THE DUELING CLUB

 199 

“Hannah,” said the stout boy solemnly, “he’s a Parselmouth.
Everyone knows that’s the mark of a Dark wizard. Have you ever
heard of a decent one who could talk to snakes? They called
Slytherin himself Serpent-tongue.”
There was some heavy murmuring at this, and Ernie went on,

“Remember what was written on the wall? Enemies of the Heir, Be-
ware. Potter had some sort of run-in with Filch. Next thing we know,

Filch’s cat’s attacked. That first year, Creevey, was annoying Potter
at the Quidditch match, taking pictures of him while he was lying
in the mud. Next thing we know — Creevey’s been attacked.”
“He always seems so nice, though,” said Hannah uncertainly,
“and, well, he’s the one who made You-Know-Who disappear. He
can’t be all bad, can he?”
Ernie lowered his voice mysteriously, the Hufflepuffs bent closer,
and Harry edged nearer so that he could catch Ernie’s words.
“No one knows how he survived that attack by You-Know-Who.
I mean to say, he was only a baby when it happened. He should
have been blasted into smithereens. Only a really powerful Dark
wizard could have survived a curse like that.” He dropped his voice
until it was barely more than a whisper, and said, “That’s probably
why You-Know-Who wanted to kill him in the first place. Didn’t
want another Dark Lord competing with him. I wonder what other
powers Potter’s been hiding?”
Harry couldn’t take anymore. Clearing his throat loudly, he
stepped out from behind the bookshelves. If he hadn’t been feeling
so angry, he would have found the sight that greeted him funny:

Every one of the Hufflepuffs looked as though they had been Pet-
rified by the sight of him, and the color was draining out of Ernie’s

face.

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 200 

“Hello,” said Harry. “I’m looking for Justin Finch-Fletchley.”
The Hufflepuffs’ worst fears had clearly been confirmed. They
all looked fearfully at Ernie.
“What do you want with him?” said Ernie in a quavering voice.
“I wanted to tell him what really happened with that snake at
the Dueling Club,” said Harry.
Ernie bit his white lips and then, taking a deep breath, said, “We
were all there. We saw what happened.”
“Then you noticed that after I spoke to it, the snake backed
off?” said Harry.
“All I saw,” said Ernie stubbornly, though he was trembling as
he spoke, “was you speaking Parseltongue and chasing the snake
toward Justin.”
“I didn’t chase it at him!” Harry said, his voice shaking with
anger. “It didn’t even touch him!”
“It was a very near miss,” said Ernie. “And in case you’re getting
ideas,” he added hastily, “I might tell you that you can trace my
family back through nine generations of witches and warlocks and
my blood’s as pure as anyone’s, so —”
“I don’t care what sort of blood you’ve got!” said Harry fiercely.
“Why would I want to attack Muggle-borns?”
“I’ve heard you hate those Muggles you live with,” said Ernie
swiftly.
“It’s not possible to live with the Dursleys and not hate them,”
said Harry. “I’d like to see you try it.”
He turned on his heel and stormed out of the library, earning
himself a reproving glare from Madam Pince, who was polishing
the gilded cover of a large spellbook.

THE DUELING CLUB

 201 

Harry blundered up the corridor, barely noticing where he was
going, he was in such a fury. The result was that he walked into
something very large and solid, which knocked him backward onto
the floor.
“Oh, hello, Hagrid,” Harry said, looking up.

Hagrid’s face was entirely hidden by a woolly, snow-covered bal-
aclava, but it couldn’t possibly be anyone else, as he filled most of

the corridor in his moleskin overcoat. A dead rooster was hanging
from one of his massive, gloved hands.
“All righ’, Harry?” he said, pulling up the balaclava so he could
speak. “Why aren’t yeh in class?”
“Canceled,” said Harry, getting up. “What’re you doing in
here?”
Hagrid held up the limp rooster.
“Second one killed this term,” he explained. “It’s either foxes or
a Blood-Suckin’ Bugbear, an’ I need the headmaster’s permission
ter put a charm around the hen coop.”

He peered more closely at Harry from under his thick, snow-
flecked eyebrows.

“Yeh sure yeh’re all righ’? Yeh look all hot an’ bothered —”
Harry couldn’t bring himself to repeat what Ernie and the rest of
the Hufflepuffs had been saying about him.

“It’s nothing,” he said. “I’d better get going, Hagrid, it’s Trans-
figuration next and I’ve got to pick up my books.”

He walked off, his mind still full of what Ernie had said about
him.
“Justin’s been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he
let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born. . . .”

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 202 

Harry stamped up the stairs and turned along another corridor,
which was particularly dark; the torches had been extinguished by
a strong, icy draft that was blowing through a loose windowpane.
He was halfway down the passage when he tripped headlong over
something lying on the floor.
He turned to squint at what he’d fallen over and felt as though
his stomach had dissolved.
Justin Finch-Fletchley was lying on the floor, rigid and cold, a

look of shock frozen on his face, his eyes staring blankly at the ceil-
ing. And that wasn’t all. Next to him was another figure, the

strangest sight Harry had ever seen.

It was Nearly Headless Nick, no longer pearly-white and trans-
parent, but black and smoky, floating immobile and horizontal, six

inches off the floor. His head was half off and his face wore an ex-
pression of shock identical to Justin’s.

Harry got to his feet, his breathing fast and shallow, his heart do-
ing a kind of drumroll against his ribs. He looked wildly up and

down the deserted corridor and saw a line of spiders scuttling as
fast as they could away from the bodies. The only sounds were the
muffled voices of teachers from the classes on either side.
He could run, and no one would ever know he had been there.
But he couldn’t just leave them lying here. . . . He had to get
help. . . . Would anyone believe he hadn’t had anything to do with
this?
As he stood there, panicking, a door right next to him opened
with a bang. Peeves the Poltergeist came shooting out.
“Why, it’s potty wee Potter!” cackled Peeves, knocking Harry’s
glasses askew as he bounced past him. “What’s Potter up to? Why’s
Potter lurking —”

THE DUELING CLUB

 203 

Peeves stopped, halfway through a midair somersault. Upside
down, he spotted Justin and Nearly Headless Nick. He flipped the
right way up, filled his lungs and, before Harry could stop him,
screamed, “ATTACK! ATTACK! ANOTHER ATTACK! NO
MORTAL OR GHOST IS SAFE! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES!
ATTAAAACK!”
Crash — crash — crash — door after door flew open along the
corridor and people flooded out. For several long minutes, there
was a scene of such confusion that Justin was in danger of being
squashed and people kept standing in Nearly Headless Nick. Harry
found himself pinned against the wall as the teachers shouted for
quiet. Professor McGonagall came running, followed by her own
class, one of whom still had black-and-white-striped hair. She used
her wand to set off a loud bang, which restored silence, and ordered
everyone back into their classes. No sooner had the scene cleared
somewhat than Ernie the Hufflepuff arrived, panting, on the scene.
“Caught in the act!” Ernie yelled, his face stark white, pointing
his finger dramatically at Harry.
“That will do, Macmillan!” said Professor McGonagall sharply.
Peeves was bobbing overhead, now grinning wickedly, surveying
the scene; Peeves always loved chaos. As the teachers bent over
Justin and Nearly Headless Nick, examining them, Peeves broke
into song:
“Oh, Potter, you rotter, oh, what have you done,
You’re killing off students, you think it’s good fun —”
“That’s enough, Peeves!” barked Professor McGonagall, and
Peeves zoomed away backward, with his tongue out at Harry.

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 204 

Justin was carried up to the hospital wing by Professor Flitwick
and Professor Sinistra of the Astronomy department, but nobody
seemed to know what to do for Nearly Headless Nick. In the end,
Professor McGonagall conjured a large fan out of thin air, which
she gave to Ernie with instructions to waft Nearly Headless Nick
up the stairs. This Ernie did, fanning Nick along like a silent black

hovercraft. This left Harry and Professor McGonagall alone to-
gether.

“This way, Potter,” she said.
“Professor,” said Harry at once, “I swear I didn’t —”
“This is out of my hands, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall
curtly.
They marched in silence around a corner and she stopped before
a large and extremely ugly stone gargoyle.
“Lemon drop!” she said. This was evidently a password, because
the gargoyle sprang suddenly to life and hopped aside as the wall
behind him split in two. Even full of dread for what was coming,

Harry couldn’t fail to be amazed. Behind the wall was a spiral stair-
case that was moving smoothly upward, like an escalator. As he and

Professor McGonagall stepped onto it, Harry heard the wall thud
closed behind them. They rose upward in circles, higher and
higher, until at last, slightly dizzy, Harry saw a gleaming oak door
ahead, with a brass knocker in the shape of a griffin.
He knew now where he was being taken. This must be where
Dumbledore lived.

C H A P T E R T W E L V E

 205 

THE POLYJUICE POTION

hey stepped off the stone staircase at the top, and Professor
McGonagall rapped on the door. It opened silently and they
entered. Professor McGonagall told Harry to wait and left him
there, alone.
Harry looked around. One thing was certain: of all the teachers’
offices Harry had visited so far this year, Dumbledore’s was by far
the most interesting. If he hadn’t been scared out of his wits that he
was about to be thrown out of school, he would have been very
pleased to have a chance to look around it.
It was a large and beautiful circular room, full of funny little

noises. A number of curious silver instruments stood on spindle-
legged tables, whirring and emitting little puffs of smoke. The walls

were covered with portraits of old headmasters and headmistresses,
all of whom were snoozing gently in their frames. There was also an
enormous, claw-footed desk, and, sitting on a shelf behind it, a
shabby, tattered wizard’s hat — the Sorting Hat.
T

CHAPTER TWELVE

 206 

Harry hesitated. He cast a wary eye around the sleeping witches
and wizards on the walls. Surely it couldn’t hurt if he took the hat
down and tried it on again? Just to see . . . just to make sure it had
put him in the right House —
He walked quietly around the desk, lifted the hat from its shelf,
and lowered it slowly onto his head. It was much too large and
slipped down over his eyes, just as it had done the last time he’d put
it on. Harry stared at the black inside of the hat, waiting. Then a
small voice said in his ear, “Bee in your bonnet, Harry Potter?”
“Er, yes,” Harry muttered. “Er — sorry to bother you — I
wanted to ask —”
“You’ve been wondering whether I put you in the right House,”
said the hat smartly. “Yes . . . you were particularly difficult to place.
But I stand by what I said before” — Harry’s heart leapt — “you
would have done well in Slytherin —”
Harry’s stomach plummeted. He grabbed the point of the hat
and pulled it off. It hung limply in his hand, grubby and faded.
Harry pushed it back onto its shelf, feeling sick.
“You’re wrong,” he said aloud to the still and silent hat. It didn’t
move. Harry backed away, watching it. Then a strange, gagging
noise behind him made him wheel around.
He wasn’t alone after all. Standing on a golden perch behind the
door was a decrepit-looking bird that resembled a half-plucked

turkey. Harry stared at it and the bird looked balefully back, mak-
ing its gagging noise again. Harry thought it looked very ill. Its eyes

were dull and, even as Harry watched, a couple more feathers fell
out of its tail.
Harry was just thinking that all he needed was for Dumbledore’s

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 207 

pet bird to die while he was alone in the office with it, when the bird
burst into flames.
Harry yelled in shock and backed away into the desk. He looked
feverishly around in case there was a glass of water somewhere but
couldn’t see one; the bird, meanwhile, had become a fireball; it gave

one loud shriek and next second there was nothing but a smolder-
ing pile of ash on the floor.

The office door opened. Dumbledore came in, looking very
somber.

“Professor,” Harry gasped. “Your bird — I couldn’t do any-
thing — he just caught fire —”

To Harry’s astonishment, Dumbledore smiled.
“About time, too,” he said. “He’s been looking dreadful for days;
I’ve been telling him to get a move on.”
He chuckled at the stunned look on Harry’s face.
“Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry. Phoenixes burst into flame when
it is time for them to die and are reborn from the ashes. Watch
him . . .”
Harry looked down in time to see a tiny, wrinkled, newborn bird
poke its head out of the ashes. It was quite as ugly as the old one.
“It’s a shame you had to see him on a Burning Day,” said
Dumbledore, seating himself behind his desk. “He’s really very

handsome most of the time, wonderful red and gold plumage. Fas-
cinating creatures, phoenixes. They can carry immensely heavy

loads, their tears have healing powers, and they make highly faith-
ful pets.”

In the shock of Fawkes catching fire, Harry had forgotten what
he was there for, but it all came back to him as Dumbledore settled

CHAPTER TWELVE

 208 

himself in the high chair behind the desk and fixed Harry with his
penetrating, light-blue stare.
Before Dumbledore could speak another word, however, the
door of the office flew open with an almighty bang and Hagrid
burst in, a wild look in his eyes, his balaclava perched on top of his
shaggy black head and the dead rooster still swinging from his
hand.
“It wasn’ Harry, Professor Dumbledore!” said Hagrid urgently. “I
was talkin’ ter him seconds before that kid was found, he never had
time, sir —”
Dumbledore tried to say something, but Hagrid went ranting
on, waving the rooster around in his agitation, sending feathers
everywhere.
“— it can’t’ve bin him, I’ll swear it in front o’ the Ministry o’
Magic if I have to —”
“Hagrid, I —”
“— yeh’ve got the wrong boy, sir, I know Harry never —”

“Hagrid!” said Dumbledore loudly. “I do not think that Harry at-
tacked those people.”

“Oh,” said Hagrid, the rooster falling limply at his side. “Right.
I’ll wait outside then, Headmaster.”
And he stomped out looking embarrassed.
“You don’t think it was me, Professor?” Harry repeated hopefully
as Dumbledore brushed rooster feathers off his desk.
“No, Harry, I don’t,” said Dumbledore, though his face was
somber again. “But I still want to talk to you.”
Harry waited nervously while Dumbledore considered him, the
tips of his long fingers together.

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 209 

“I must ask you, Harry, whether there is anything you’d like to
tell me,” he said gently. “Anything at all.”
Harry didn’t know what to say. He thought of Malfoy shouting,

“You’ll be next, Mudbloods!” and of the Polyjuice Potion simmer-
ing away in Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. Then he thought of the

disembodied voice he had heard twice and remembered what Ron
had said: “Hearing voices no one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in
the wizarding world.” He thought, too, about what everyone was

saying about him, and his growing dread that he was somehow con-
nected with Salazar Slytherin. . . .

“No,” said Harry. “There isn’t anything, Professor. . . .”
The double attack on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick turned
what had hitherto been nervousness into real panic. Curiously, it
was Nearly Headless Nick’s fate that seemed to worry people most.
What could possibly do that to a ghost? people asked each other;
what terrible power could harm someone who was already dead?

There was almost a stampede to book seats on the Hogwarts Ex-
press so that students could go home for Christmas.

“At this rate, we’ll be the only ones left,” Ron told Harry and
Hermione. “Us, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. What a jolly holiday
it’s going to be.”
Crabbe and Goyle, who always did whatever Malfoy did, had
signed up to stay over the holidays, too. But Harry was glad that
most people were leaving. He was tired of people skirting around
him in the corridors, as though he were about to sprout fangs or
spit poison; tired of all the muttering, pointing, and hissing as he
passed.

CHAPTER TWELVE

 210 

Fred and George, however, found all this very funny. They went
out of their way to march ahead of Harry down the corridors,

shouting, “Make way for the Heir of Slytherin, seriously evil wiz-
ard coming through. . . .”

Percy was deeply disapproving of this behavior.
“It is not a laughing matter,” he said coldly.
“Oh, get out of the way, Percy,” said Fred. “Harry’s in a hurry.”
“Yeah, he’s off to the Chamber of Secrets for a cup of tea with his
fanged servant,” said George, chortling.
Ginny didn’t find it amusing either.
“Oh, don’t,” she wailed every time Fred asked Harry loudly who
he was planning to attack next, or when George pretended to ward
Harry off with a large clove of garlic when they met.
Harry didn’t mind; it made him feel better that Fred and
George, at least, thought the idea of his being Slytherin’s heir was
quite ludicrous. But their antics seemed to be aggravating Draco
Malfoy, who looked increasingly sour each time he saw them at it.

“It’s because he’s bursting to say it’s really him,” said Ron know-
ingly. “You know how he hates anyone beating him at anything,

and you’re getting all the credit for his dirty work.”

“Not for long,” said Hermione in a satisfied tone. “The Poly-
juice Potion’s nearly ready. We’ll be getting the truth out of him any

day now.”
At last the term ended, and a silence deep as the snow on the
grounds descended on the castle. Harry found it peaceful, rather
than gloomy, and enjoyed the fact that he, Hermione, and the
Weasleys had the run of Gryffindor Tower, which meant they could

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 211 

play Exploding Snap loudly without bothering anyone, and prac-
tice dueling in private. Fred, George, and Ginny had chosen to stay

at school rather than visit Bill in Egypt with Mr. and Mrs. Weasley.
Percy, who disapproved of what he termed their childish behavior,
didn’t spend much time in the Gryffindor common room. He had

already told them pompously that he was only staying over Christ-
mas because it was his duty as a prefect to support the teachers dur-
ing this troubled time.

Christmas morning dawned, cold and white. Harry and Ron,
the only ones left in their dormitory, were woken very early by
Hermione, who burst in, fully dressed and carrying presents for
them both.

“Wake up,” she said loudly, pulling back the curtains at the win-
dow.

“Hermione — you’re not supposed to be in here —” said Ron,
shielding his eyes against the light.
“Merry Christmas to you, too,” said Hermione, throwing him

his present. “I’ve been up for nearly an hour, adding more lace-
wings to the potion. It’s ready.”

Harry sat up, suddenly wide awake.
“Are you sure?”
“Positive,” said Hermione, shirting Scabbers the rat so that she
could sit down on the end of Ron’s four-poster. “If we’re going to
do it, I say it should be tonight.”
At that moment, Hedwig swooped into the room, carrying a
very small package in her beak.
“Hello,” said Harry happily as she landed on his bed. “Are you
speaking to me again?”

CHAPTER TWELVE

 212 

She nibbled his ear in an affectionate sort of way, which was a far
better present than the one that she had brought him, which

turned out to be from the Dursleys. They had sent Harry a tooth-
pick and a note telling him to find out whether he’d be able to stay

at Hogwarts for the summer vacation, too.

The rest of Harry’s Christmas presents were far more satisfac-
tory. Hagrid had sent him a large tin of treacle toffee, which Harry

decided to soften by the fire before eating; Ron had given him a
book called Flying with the Cannons, a book of interesting facts
about his favorite Quidditch team, and Hermione had bought him
a luxury eagle-feather quill. Harry opened the last present to find a
new, hand-knitted sweater from Mrs. Weasley and a large plum
cake. He read her card with a fresh surge of guilt, thinking about
Mr. Weasley’s car (which hadn’t been seen since its crash with the
Whomping Willow), and the bout of rule-breaking he and Ron
were planning next.
No one, not even someone dreading taking Polyjuice Potion later,
could fail to enjoy Christmas dinner at Hogwarts.
The Great Hall looked magnificent. Not only were there a dozen
frost-covered Christmas trees and thick streamers of holly and
mistletoe crisscrossing the ceiling, but enchanted snow was falling,
warm and dry, from the ceiling. Dumbledore led them in a few of
his favorite carols, Hagrid booming more and more loudly with
every goblet of eggnog he consumed. Percy, who hadn’t noticed

that Fred had bewitched his prefect badge so that it now read “Pin-
head,” kept asking them all what they were sniggering at. Harry

didn’t even care that Draco Malfoy was making loud, snide remarks

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 213 

about his new sweater from the Slytherin table. With a bit of luck,
Malfoy would be getting his comeuppance in a few hours’ time.
Harry and Ron had barely finished their third helpings of
Christmas pudding when Hermione ushered them out of the hall
to finalize their plans for the evening.
“We still need a bit of the people you’re changing into,” said
Hermione matter-of-factly, as though she were sending them to the
supermarket for laundry detergent. “And obviously, it’ll be best if
you can get something of Crabbe’s and Goyle’s; they’re Malfoy’s
best friends, he’ll tell them anything. And we also need to make

sure the real Crabbe and Goyle can’t burst in on us while we’re in-
terrogating him.

“I’ve got it all worked out,” she went on smoothly, ignoring

Harry’s and Ron’s stupefied faces. She held up two plump choco-
late cakes. “I’ve filled these with a simple Sleeping Draught. All you

have to do is make sure Crabbe and Goyle find them. You know
how greedy they are, they’re bound to eat them. Once they’re
asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and hide them in a broom
closet.”
Harry and Ron looked incredulously at each other.
“Hermione, I don’t think —”
“That could go seriously wrong —”
But Hermione had a steely glint in her eye not unlike the one
Professor McGonagall sometimes had.
“The potion will be useless without Crabbe’s and Goyle’s hair,”
she said sternly. “You do want to investigate Malfoy, don’t you?”
“Oh, all right, all right,” said Harry. “But what about you?
Whose hair are you ripping out?”

CHAPTER TWELVE

 214 

“I’ve already got mine!” said Hermione brightly, pulling a tiny
bottle out of her pocket and showing them the single hair inside it.
“Remember Millicent Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Dueling
Club? She left this on my robes when she was trying to strangle me!
And she’s gone home for Christmas — so I’ll just have to tell the
Slytherins I’ve decided to come back.”

When Hermione had bustled off to check on the Polyjuice Po-
tion again, Ron turned to Harry with a doom-laden expression.

“Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go
wrong?”

But to Harry’s and Ron’s utter amazement, stage one of the opera-
tion went just as smoothly as Hermione had said. They lurked in

the deserted entrance hall after Christmas tea, waiting for Crabbe

and Goyle who had remained alone at the Slytherin table, shovel-
ing down fourth helpings of trifle. Harry had perched the choco-
late cakes on the end of the banisters. When they spotted Crabbe

and Goyle coming out of the Great Hall, Harry and Ron hid
quickly behind a suit of armor next to the front door.
“How thick can you get?” Ron whispered ecstatically as Crabbe

gleefully pointed out the cakes to Goyle and grabbed them. Grin-
ning stupidly, they stuffed the cakes whole into their large mouths.

For a moment, both of them chewed greedily, looks of triumph on
their faces. Then, without the smallest change of expression, they
both keeled over backward onto the floor.
By far the hardest part was hiding them in the closet across the
hall. Once they were safely stowed among the buckets and mops,
Harry yanked out a couple of the bristles that covered Goyle’s fore-

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 215 

head and Ron pulled out several of Crabbe’s hairs. They also stole
their shoes, because their own were far too small for Crabbe- and
Goyle-size feet. Then, still stunned at what they had just done, they
sprinted up to Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom.
They could hardly see for the thick black smoke issuing from the
stall in which Hermione was stirring the cauldron. Pulling their robes
up over their faces, Harry and Ron knocked softly on the door.
“Hermione?”
They heard the scrape of the lock and Hermione emerged,
shiny-faced and looking anxious. Behind her they heard the gloop
gloop of the bubbling, glutinous potion. Three glass tumblers stood
ready on the toilet seat.
“Did you get them?” Hermione asked breathlessly.
Harry showed her Goyle’s hair.
“Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the laundry,”
Hermione said, holding up a small sack. “You’ll need bigger sizes
once you’re Crabbe and Goyle.”
The three of them stared into the cauldron. Close up, the potion
looked like thick, dark mud, bubbling sluggishly.
“I’m sure I’ve done everything right,” said Hermione, nervously
rereading the splotched page of Moste Potente Potions. “It looks like
the book says it should . . . once we’ve drunk it, we’ll have exactly
an hour before we change back into ourselves.”
“Now what?” Ron whispered.
“We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs.”
Hermione ladled large dollops of the potion into each of the
glasses. Then, her hand trembling, she shook Millicent Bulstrode’s
hair out of its bottle into the first glass.

CHAPTER TWELVE

 216 

The potion hissed loudly like a boiling kettle and frothed madly.
A second later, it had turned a sick sort of yellow.
“Urgh — essence of Millicent Bulstrode,” said Ron, eyeing it
with loathing. “Bet it tastes disgusting.”
“Add yours, then,” said Hermione.
Harry dropped Goyle’s hair into the middle glass and Ron put
Crabbe’s into the last one. Both glasses hissed and frothed: Goyle’s
turned the khaki color of a booger, Crabbe’s a dark, murky brown.
“Hang on,” said Harry as Ron and Hermione reached for their
glasses. “We’d better not all drink them in here. . . . Once we turn
into Crabbe and Goyle we won’t fit. And Millicent Bulstrode’s no
pixie.”

“Good thinking,” said Ron, unlocking the door. “We’ll take sep-
arate stalls.”

Careful not to spill a drop of his Polyjuice Potion, Harry slipped
into the middle stall.
“Ready?” he called.
“Ready,” came Ron’s and Hermione’s voices.
“One — two — three —”
Pinching his nose, Harry drank the potion down in two large
gulps. It tasted like overcooked cabbage.
Immediately, his insides started writhing as though he’d just
swallowed live snakes — doubled up, he wondered whether he was
going to be sick — then a burning sensation spread rapidly from

his stomach to the very ends of his fingers and toes — next, bring-
ing him gasping to all fours, came a horrible melting feeling, as the

skin all over his body bubbled like hot wax — and before his eyes,
his hands began to grow, the fingers thickened, the nails broadened,

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 217 

the knuckles were bulging like bolts — his shoulders stretched
painfully and a prickling on his forehead told him that hair was
creeping down toward his eyebrows — his robes ripped as his chest
expanded like a barrel bursting its hoops — his feet were agony in
shoes four sizes too small —
As suddenly as it had started, everything stopped. Harry lay

facedown on the stone-cold floor, listening to Myrtle gurgling mo-
rosely in the end toilet. With difficulty, he kicked off his shoes and

stood up. So this was what it felt like, being Goyle. His large hand
trembling, he pulled off his old robes, which were hanging a foot
above his ankles, pulled on the spare ones, and laced up Goyle’s
boatlike shoes. He reached up to brush his hair out of his eyes and
met only the short growth of wiry bristles, low on his forehead.
Then he realized that his glasses were clouding his eyes because
Goyle obviously didn’t need them — he took them off and called,
“Are you two okay?” Goyle’s low rasp of a voice issued from his
mouth.
“Yeah,” came the deep grunt of Crabbe from his right.
Harry unlocked his door and stepped in front of the cracked
mirror. Goyle stared back at him out of dull, deepset eyes. Harry
scratched his ear. So did Goyle.
Ron’s door opened. They stared at each other. Except that he
looked pale and shocked, Ron was indistinguishable from Crabbe,
from the pudding-bowl haircut to the long, gorilla arms.
“This is unbelievable,” said Ron, approaching the mirror and
prodding Crabbe’s flat nose. “Unbelievable.”
“We’d better get going,” said Harry, loosening the watch that
was cutting into Goyle’s thick wrist. “We’ve still got to find out

CHAPTER TWELVE

 218 

where the Slytherin common room is. I only hope we can find
someone to follow . . .”
Ron, who had been gazing at Harry, said, “You don’t know how
bizarre it is to see Goyle thinking.” He banged on Hermione’s door.
“C’mon, we need to go —”
A high-pitched voice answered him.

“I — I don’t think I’m going to come after all. You go on with-
out me.”

“Hermione, we know Millicent Bulstrode’s ugly, no one’s going
to know it’s you —”
“No — really — I don’t think I’ll come. You two hurry up,
you’re wasting time —”
Harry looked at Ron, bewildered.
“That looks more like Goyle,” said Ron. “That’s how he looks
every time a teacher asks him a question.”
“Hermione, are you okay?” said Harry through the door.
“Fine — I’m fine — go on —”
Harry looked at his watch. Five of their precious sixty minutes
had already passed.
“We’ll meet you back here, all right?” he said.
Harry and Ron opened the door of the bathroom carefully,
checked that the coast was clear, and set off.
“Don’t swing your arms like that,” Harry muttered to Ron.
“Eh?”
“Crabbe holds them sort of stiff. . . .”
“How’s this?”
“Yeah, that’s better. . . .”
They went down the marble staircase. All they needed now was

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 219 

a Slytherin that they could follow to the Slytherin common room,
but there was nobody around.
“Any ideas?” muttered Harry.
“The Slytherins always come up to breakfast from over there,”
said Ron, nodding at the entrance to the dungeons. The words had
barely left his mouth when a girl with long, curly hair emerged
from the entrance.
“Excuse me,” said Ron, hurrying up to her. “We’ve forgotten the
way to our common room.”
“I beg your pardon?” said the girl stiffly. “Our common room?
I’m a Ravenclaw.”
She walked away, looking suspiciously back at them.
Harry and Ron hurried down the stone steps into the darkness,
their footsteps echoing particularly loudly as Crabbe’s and Goyle’s
huge feet hit the floor, feeling that this wasn’t going to be as easy as
they had hoped.
The labyrinthine passages were deserted. They walked deeper
and deeper under the school, constantly checking their watches to
see how much time they had left. After a quarter of an hour, just
when they were getting desperate, they heard a sudden movement
ahead.
“Ha!” said Ron excitedly. “There’s one of them now!”
The figure was emerging from a side room. As they hurried
nearer, however, their hearts sank. It wasn’t a Slytherin, it was Percy.
“What’re you doing down here?” said Ron in surprise.
Percy looked affronted.
“That,” he said stiffly, “is none of your business. It’s Crabbe,
isn’t it?”

CHAPTER TWELVE

 220 
“Wh — oh, yeah,” said Ron.
“Well, get off to your dormitories,” said Percy sternly. “It’s not
safe to go wandering around dark corridors these days.”
“You are,” Ron pointed out.
“I,” said Percy, drawing himself up, “am a prefect. Nothing’s
about to attack me.”
A voice suddenly echoed behind Harry and Ron. Draco Malfoy
was strolling toward them, and for the first time in his life, Harry
was pleased to see him.
“There you are,” he drawled, looking at them. “Have you two
been pigging out in the Great Hall all this time? I’ve been looking
for you; I want to show you something really funny.”
Malfoy glanced witheringly at Percy.
“And what’re you doing down here, Weasley?” he sneered.
Percy looked outraged.
“You want to show a bit more respect to a school prefect!” he
said. “I don’t like your attitude!”
Malfoy sneered and motioned for Harry and Ron to follow him.

Harry almost said something apologetic to Percy but caught him-
self just in time. He and Ron hurried after Malfoy, who said as they

turned into the next passage, “That Peter Weasley —”
“Percy,” Ron corrected him automatically.
“Whatever,” said Malfoy. “I’ve noticed him sneaking around a
lot lately. And I bet I know what he’s up to. He thinks he’s going to
catch Slytherin’s heir single-handed.”

He gave a short, derisive laugh. Harry and Ron exchanged ex-
cited looks.

Malfoy paused by a stretch of bare, damp stone wall.

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 221 

“What’s the new password again?” he said to Harry.
“Er —” said Harry.
“Oh, yeah — pure-blood!” said Malfoy, not listening, and a
stone door concealed in the wall slid open. Malfoy marched
through it, and Harry and Ron followed him.
The Slytherin common room was a long, low underground

room with rough stone walls and ceiling from which round, green-
ish lamps were hanging on chains. A fire was crackling under an

elaborately carved mantelpiece ahead of them, and several Slyth-
erins were silhouetted around it in high-backed chairs.

“Wait here,” said Malfoy to Harry and Ron, motioning them to
a pair of empty chairs set back from the fire. “I’ll go and get it —
my father’s just sent it to me —”
Wondering what Malfoy was going to show them, Harry and
Ron sat down, doing their best to look at home.
Malfoy came back a minute later, holding what looked like a
newspaper clipping. He thrust it under Ron’s nose.
“That’ll give you a laugh,” he said.
Harry saw Ron's eyes widen in shock. He read the clipping
quickly, gave a very forced laugh, and handed it to Harry.
It had been clipped out of the Daily Prophet, and it said:
INQUIRY AT THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC

Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Ar-
tifacts Office, was today fined fifty Galleons for be-
witching a Muggle car.

Mr. Lucius Malfoy, a governor of Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where the

CHAPTER TWELVE

 222 

enchanted car crashed earlier this year, called today
for Mr. Weasley’s resignation.

“Weasley has brought the Ministry into disre-
pute,” Mr. Malfoy told our reporter. “He is clearly

unfit to draw up our laws and his ridiculous Mug-
gle Protection Act should be scrapped immedi-
ately.”

Mr. Weasley was unavailable for comment, al-
though his wife told reporters to clear off or she’d

set the family ghoul on them.
“Well?” said Malfoy impatiently as Harry handed the clipping
back to him. “Don’t you think it’s funny?”
“Ha, ha,” said Harry bleakly.
“Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much he should snap his
wand in half and go and join them,” said Malfoy scornfully.
“You’d never know the Weasleys were purebloods, the way they
behave.”
Ron’s — or rather, Crabbe’s — face was contorted with fury.
“What’s up with you, Crabbe?” snapped Malfoy.
“Stomachache,” Ron grunted.
“Well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those Mudbloods
a kick from me,” said Malfoy, snickering. “You know, I’m surprised
the Daily Prophet hasn’t reported all these attacks yet,” he went on
thoughtfully. “I suppose Dumbledore’s trying to hush it all up.
He’ll be sacked if it doesn’t stop soon. Father’s always said old
Dumbledore’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to this place.
He loves Muggle-borns. A decent headmaster would never’ve let
slime like that Creevey in.”

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 223 

Malfoy started taking pictures with an imaginary camera and
did a cruel but accurate impression of Colin: “ ‘Potter, can I have
your picture, Potter? Can I have your autograph? Can I lick your
shoes, please, Potter?’ ”
He dropped his hands and looked at Harry and Ron.
“What’s the matter with you two?”
Far too late, Harry and Ron forced themselves to laugh, but
Malfoy seemed satisfied; perhaps Crabbe and Goyle were always
slow on the uptake.
“Saint Potter, the Mudbloods’ friend,” said Malfoy slowly. “He’s
another one with no proper wizard feeling, or he wouldn’t go
around with that jumped-up Granger Mudblood. And people
think he’s Slytherin’s heir!”

Harry and Ron waited with bated breath: Malfoy was surely sec-
onds away from telling them it was him — but then —

“I wish I knew who it is,” said Malfoy petulantly. “I could help
them.”
Ron’s jaw dropped so that Crabbe looked even more clueless
than usual. Fortunately, Malfoy didn’t notice, and Harry, thinking
fast, said, “You must have some idea who’s behind it all. . . .”
“You know I haven’t, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell
you?” snapped Malfoy. “And Father won’t tell me anything about
the last time the Chamber was opened either. Of course, it was fifty
years ago, so it was before his time, but he knows all about it, and
he says that it was all kept quiet and it’ll look suspicious if I know

too much about it. But I know one thing — last time the Cham-
ber of Secrets was opened, a Mudblood died. So I bet it’s a matter

of time before one of them’s killed this time. . . . I hope it’s
Granger,” he said with relish.

CHAPTER TWELVE

 224 

Ron was clenching Crabbe’s gigantic fists. Feeling that it would
be a bit of a giveaway if Ron punched Malfoy, Harry shot him a
warning look and said, “D’you know if the person who opened the
Chamber last time was caught?”
“Oh, yeah . . . whoever it was was expelled,” said Malfoy.
“They’re probably still in Azkaban.”
“Azkaban?” said Harry, puzzled.
“Azkaban — the wizard prison, Goyle,” said Malfoy, looking at
him in disbelief. “Honestly, if you were any slower, you’d be going
backward.”
He shifted restlessly in his chair and said, “Father says to keep
my head down and let the Heir of Slytherin get on with it. He says
the school needs ridding of all the Mudblood filth, but not to get
mixed up in it. Of course, he’s got a lot on his plate at the moment.
You know the Ministry of Magic raided our manor last week?”
Harry tried to force Goyle’s dull face into a look of concern.
“Yeah . . .” said Malfoy. “Luckily, they didn’t find much. Father’s
got some very valuable Dark Arts stuff. But luckily, we’ve got our
own secret chamber under the drawing-room floor —”
“Ho!” said Ron.
Malfoy looked at him. So did Harry. Ron blushed. Even his hair
was turning red. His nose was also slowly lengthening — their
hour was up, Ron was turning back into himself, and from the look
of horror he was suddenly giving Harry, he must be, too.
They both jumped to their feet.
“Medicine for my stomach,” Ron grunted, and without further
ado they sprinted the length of the Slytherin common room,
hurled themselves at the stone wall, and dashed up the passage,
hoping against hope that Malfoy hadn’t noticed anything. Harry

THE POLYJUICE POTION

 225 

could feel his feet slipping around in Goyle’s huge shoes and had to
hoist up his robes as he shrank; they crashed up the steps into the
dark entrance hall, which was full of a muffled pounding coming
from the closet where they’d locked Crabbe and Goyle. Leaving
their shoes outside the closet door, they sprinted in their socks up
the marble staircase toward Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom.
“Well, it wasn’t a complete waste of time,” Ron panted, closing
the bathroom door behind them. “I know we still haven’t found

out who’s doing the attacks, but I’m going to write to Dad tomor-
row and tell him to check under the Malfoys’ drawing room.”

Harry checked his face in the cracked mirror. He was back to
normal. He put his glasses on as Ron hammered on the door of
Hermione’s stall.
“Hermione, come out, we’ve got loads to tell you —”
“Go away!” Hermione squeaked.
Harry and Ron looked at each other.
“What’s the matter?” said Ron. “You must be back to normal by
now, we are —”
But Moaning Myrtle glided suddenly through the stall door.
Harry had never seen her looking so happy.
“Ooooooh, wait till you see,” she said. “It’s awful —”

They heard the lock slide back and Hermione emerged, sob-
bing, her robes pulled up over her head.

“What’s up?” said Ron uncertainly. “Have you still got Milli-
cent’s nose or something?”

Hermione let her robes fall and Ron backed into the sink.
Her face was covered in black fur. Her eyes had turned yellow
and there were long, pointed ears poking through her hair.
“It was a c-cat hair!” she howled. “M-Millicent Bulstrode

CHAPTER TWELVE

 226 

m-must have a cat! And the p-potion isn’t supposed to be used for
animal transformations!”
“Uh-oh,” said Ron.
“You’ll be teased something dreadful,” said Myrtle happily.
“It’s okay, Hermione,” said Harry quickly. “We’ll take you up to

the hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey never asks too many ques-
tions. . . .”

It took a long time to persuade Hermione to leave the bath-
room. Moaning Myrtle sped them on their way with a hearty guf-
faw. “Wait till everyone finds out you’ve got a tail!”

C H A P T E R T H I R T E E N

 227 

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

ermione remained in the hospital wing for several weeks.
There was a flurry of rumor about her disappearance

when the rest of the school arrived back from their Christmas hol-
idays, because of course everyone thought that she had been at-
tacked. So many students filed past the hospital wing trying to

catch a glimpse of her that Madam Pomfrey took out her curtains
again and placed them around Hermione’s bed, to spare her the
shame of being seen with a furry face.
Harry and Ron went to visit her every evening. When the new
term started, they brought her each day’s homework.
“If I’d sprouted whiskers, I’d take a break from work,” said Ron,
tipping a stack of books onto Hermione’s bedside table one
evening.
“Don’t be silly, Ron, I’ve got to keep up,” said Hermione briskly.
Her spirits were greatly improved by the fact that all the hair had
H

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 228 

gone from her face and her eyes were turning slowly back to brown.
“I don’t suppose you’ve got any new leads?” she added in a whisper,
so that Madam Pomfrey couldn’t hear her.
“Nothing,” said Harry gloomily.
“I was so sure it was Malfoy,” said Ron, for about the hundredth
time.
“What’s that?” asked Harry, pointing to something gold sticking
out from under Hermione’s pillow.
“Just a get well card,” said Hermione hastily, trying to poke it
out of sight, but Ron was too quick for her. He pulled it out,
flicked it open, and read aloud:

“To Miss Granger, wishing you a speedy recovery, from your con-
cerned teacher, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third

Class, Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League, and five-
time winner of Witch Weekly’s Most-Charming-Smile Award.”

Ron looked up at Hermione, disgusted.
“You sleep with this under your pillow?”

But Hermione was spared answering by Madam Pomfrey sweep-
ing over with her evening dose of medicine.

“Is Lockhart the smarmiest bloke you’ve ever met, or what?”
Ron said to Harry as they left the infirmary and started up the
stairs toward Gryffindor Tower. Snape had given them so much

homework, Harry thought he was likely to be in the sixth year be-
fore he finished it. Ron was just saying he wished he had asked

Hermione how many rat tails you were supposed to add to a Hair-
Raising Potion when an angry outburst from the floor above

reached their ears.
“That’s Filch,” Harry muttered as they hurried up the stairs and
paused, out of sight, listening hard.

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 229 

“You don’t think someone else’s been attacked?” said Ron
tensely.
They stood still, their heads inclined toward Filch’s voice, which
sounded quite hysterical.
“— even more work for me! Mopping all night, like I haven’t got
enough to do! No, this is the final straw, I’m going to Dumbledore —”
His footsteps receded along the out-of-sight corridor and they
heard a distant door slam.
They poked their heads around the corner. Filch had clearly
been manning his usual lookout post: They were once again on the
spot where Mrs. Norris had been attacked. They saw at a glance
what Filch had been shouting about. A great flood of water
stretched over half the corridor, and it looked as though it was still
seeping from under the door of Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. Now
that Filch had stopped shouting, they could hear Myrtle’s wails
echoing off the bathroom walls.
“Now what’s up with her?” said Ron.
“Let’s go and see,” said Harry, and holding their robes over their
ankles they stepped through the great wash of water to the door
bearing its out of order sign, ignored it as always, and entered.
Moaning Myrtle was crying, if possible, louder and harder than
ever before. She seemed to be hiding down her usual toilet. It was
dark in the bathroom because the candles had been extinguished in
the great rush of water that had left both walls and floor soaking wet.
“What’s up, Myrtle?” said Harry.

“Who’s that?” glugged Myrtle miserably. “Come to throw some-
thing else at me?”

Harry waded across to her stall and said, “Why would I throw
something at you?”

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 230 

“Don’t ask me,” Myrtle shouted, emerging with a wave of yet
more water, which splashed onto the already sopping floor. “Here I
am, minding my own business, and someone thinks it’s funny to
throw a book at me. . . .”
“But it can’t hurt you if someone throws something at you,”
said Harry, reasonably. “I mean, it’d just go right through you,
wouldn’t it?”
He had said the wrong thing. Myrtle puffed herself up and
shrieked, “Let’s all throw books at Myrtle, because she can’t feel it!
Ten points if you can get it through her stomach! Fifty points if it
goes through her head! Well, ha, ha, ha! What a lovely game, I don’t
think!”
“Who threw it at you, anyway?” asked Harry.
“I don’t know. . . . I was just sitting in the U-bend, thinking
about death, and it fell right through the top of my head,” said
Myrtle, glaring at them. “It’s over there, it got washed out. . . .”

Harry and Ron looked under the sink where Myrtle was point-
ing. A small, thin book lay there. It had a shabby black cover and

was as wet as everything else in the bathroom. Harry stepped for-
ward to pick it up, but Ron suddenly flung out an arm to hold

him back.
“What?” said Harry.
“Are you crazy?” said Ron. “It could be dangerous.”
“Dangerous?” said Harry, laughing. “Come off it, how could it be
dangerous?”
“You’d be surprised,” said Ron, who was looking apprehensively
at the book. “Some of the books the Ministry’s confiscated —
Dad’s told me — there was one that burned your eyes out. And

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 231 

everyone who read Sonnets of a Sorcerer spoke in limericks for the
rest of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a book that you
could never stop reading! You just had to wander around with your
nose in it, trying to do everything one-handed. And —”
“All right, I’ve got the point,” said Harry.
The little book lay on the floor, nondescript and soggy.
“Well, we won’t find out unless we look at it,” he said, and he
ducked around Ron and picked it up off the floor.
Harry saw at once that it was a diary, and the faded year on the
cover told him it was fifty years old. He opened it eagerly. On the
first page he could just make out the name “T. M. Riddle” in
smudged ink.
“Hang on,” said Ron, who had approached cautiously and was

looking over Harry’s shoulder. “I know that name. . . . T. M. Rid-
dle got an award for special services to the school fifty years ago.”

“How on earth d’you know that?” said Harry in amazement.

“Because Filch made me polish his shield about fifty times in de-
tention,” said Ron resentfully. “That was the one I burped slugs all

over. If you’d wiped slime off a name for an hour, you’d remember
it, too.”
Harry peeled the wet pages apart. They were completely blank.
There wasn’t the faintest trace of writing on any of them, not even
Auntie Mabel’s birthday, or dentist, half-past three.
“He never wrote in it,” said Harry, disappointed.

“I wonder why someone wanted to flush it away?” said Ron cu-
riously.

Harry turned to the back cover of the book and saw the printed
name of a variety store on Vauxhall Road, London.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 232 

“He must’ve been Muggle-born,” said Harry thoughtfully. “To
have bought a diary from Vauxhall Road. . . .”
“Well, it’s not much use to you,” said Ron. He dropped his
voice. “Fifty points if you can get it through Myrtle’s nose.”
Harry, however, pocketed it.

Hermione left the hospital wing, de-whiskered, tail-less, and fur-
free, at the beginning of February. On her first evening back in

Gryffindor Tower, Harry showed her T. M. Riddle’s diary and told
her the story of how they had found it.

“Oooh, it might have hidden powers,” said Hermione enthusi-
astically, taking the diary and looking at it closely.

“If it has, it’s hiding them very well,” said Ron. “Maybe it’s shy.
I don’t know why you don’t chuck it, Harry.”
“I wish I knew why someone did try to chuck it,” said Harry. “I

wouldn’t mind knowing how Riddle got an award for special ser-
vices to Hogwarts either.”

“Could’ve been anything,” said Ron. “Maybe he got thirty

O.W.L.s or saved a teacher from the giant squid. Maybe he mur-
dered Myrtle; that would’ve done everyone a favor. . . .”

But Harry could tell from the arrested look on Hermione’s face
that she was thinking what he was thinking.
“What?” said Ron, looking from one to the other.
“Well, the Chamber of Secrets was opened fifty years ago, wasn’t
it?” he said. “That’s what Malfoy said.”
“Yeah . . .” said Ron slowly.

“And this diary is fifty years old,” said Hermione, tapping it ex-
citedly.

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 233 

“So?”
“Oh, Ron, wake up,” snapped Hermione. “We know the person
who opened the Chamber last time was expelled fifty years ago. We
know T. M. Riddle got an award for special services to the school

fifty years ago. Well, what if Riddle got his special award for catch-
ing the Heir of Slytherin? His diary would probably tell us every-
thing — where the Chamber is, and how to open it, and what sort

of creature lives in it — the person who’s behind the attacks this
time wouldn’t want that lying around, would they?”
“That’s a brilliant theory, Hermione,” said Ron, “with just one
tiny little flaw. There’s nothing written in his diary.”
But Hermione was pulling her wand out of her bag.
“It might be invisible ink!” she whispered.
She tapped the diary three times and said, “Aparecium!”
Nothing happened. Undaunted, Hermione shoved her hand back
into her bag and pulled out what appeared to be a bright red eraser.
“It’s a Revealer, I got it in Diagon Alley,” she said.
She rubbed hard on January first. Nothing happened.
“I’m telling you, there’s nothing to find in there,” said Ron.
“Riddle just got a diary for Christmas and couldn’t be bothered
filling it in.”
Harry couldn’t explain, even to himself, why he didn’t just throw

Riddle’s diary away. The fact was that even though he knew the di-
ary was blank, he kept absentmindedly picking it up and turn-
ing the pages, as though it were a story he wanted to finish. And

while Harry was sure he had never heard the name T. M. Riddle
before, it still seemed to mean something to him, almost as though

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 234 

Riddle was a friend he’d had when he was very small, and had half-
forgotten. But this was absurd. He’d never had friends before

Hogwarts, Dudley had made sure of that.
Nevertheless, Harry was determined to find out more about

Riddle, so next day at break, he headed for the trophy room to ex-
amine Riddle’s special award, accompanied by an interested Her-
mione and a thoroughly unconvinced Ron, who told them he’d

seen enough of the trophy room to last him a lifetime.

Riddle’s burnished gold shield was tucked away in a corner cab-
inet. It didn’t carry details of why it had been given to him (“Good

thing, too, or it’d be even bigger and I’d still be polishing it,” said
Ron). However, they did find Riddle’s name on an old Medal for
Magical Merit, and on a list of old Head Boys.
“He sounds like Percy,” said Ron, wrinkling his nose in disgust.
“Prefect, Head Boy . . . probably top of every class —”
“You say that like it’s a bad thing,” said Hermione in a slightly
hurt voice.
The sun had now begun to shine weakly on Hogwarts again. Inside
the castle, the mood had grown more hopeful. There had been no
more attacks since those on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick, and
Madam Pomfrey was pleased to report that the Mandrakes were

becoming moody and secretive, meaning that they were fast leav-
ing childhood.

“The moment their acne clears up, they’ll be ready for repotting
again,” Harry heard her telling Filch kindly one afternoon. “And
after that, it won’t be long until we’re cutting them up and stewing
them. You’ll have Mrs. Norris back in no time.”

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 235 

Perhaps the Heir of Slytherin had lost his or her nerve, thought
Harry. It must be getting riskier and riskier to open the Chamber
of Secrets, with the school so alert and suspicious. Perhaps the

monster, whatever it was, was even now settling itself down to hi-
bernate for another fifty years. . . .

Ernie Macmillan of Hufflepuff didn’t take this cheerful view. He
was still convinced that Harry was the guilty one, that he had
“given himself away” at the Dueling Club. Peeves wasn’t helping
matters; he kept popping up in the crowded corridors singing “Oh,
Potter, you rotter . . .” now with a dance routine to match.

Gilderoy Lockhart seemed to think he himself had made the at-
tacks stop. Harry overheard him telling Professor McGonagall so

while the Gryffindors were lining up for Transfiguration.
“I don’t think there’ll be any more trouble, Minerva,” he said,
tapping his nose knowingly and winking. “I think the Chamber
has been locked for good this time. The culprit must have known
it was only a matter of time before I caught him. Rather sensible to
stop now, before I came down hard on him.
“You know, what the school needs now is a morale-booster.
Wash away the memories of last term! I won’t say any more just
now, but I think I know just the thing. . . .”
He tapped his nose again and strode off.
Lockhart’s idea of a morale-booster became clear at breakfast
time on February fourteenth. Harry hadn’t had much sleep because

of a late-running Quidditch practice the night before, and he hur-
ried down to the Great Hall, slightly late. He thought, for a mo-
ment, that he’d walked through the wrong doors.

The walls were all covered with large, lurid pink flowers. Worse

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 236 

still, heart-shaped confetti was falling from the pale blue ceiling.
Harry went over to the Gryffindor table, where Ron was sitting
looking sickened, and Hermione seemed to have been overcome
with giggles.
“What’s going on?” Harry asked them, sitting down and wiping
confetti off his bacon.
Ron pointed to the teachers’ table, apparently too disgusted to

speak. Lockhart, wearing lurid pink robes to match the decora-
tions, was waving for silence. The teachers on either side of him

were looking stony-faced. From where he sat, Harry could see a
muscle going in Professor McGonagall’s cheek. Snape looked as
though someone had just fed him a large beaker of Skele-Gro.
“Happy Valentine’s Day!” Lockhart shouted. “And may I thank
the forty-six people who have so far sent me cards! Yes, I have taken
the liberty of arranging this little surprise for you all — and it
doesn’t end here!”
Lockhart clapped his hands and through the doors to the
entrance hall marched a dozen surly-looking dwarfs. Not just any
dwarfs, however. Lockhart had them all wearing golden wings and
carrying harps.
“My friendly, card-carrying cupids!” beamed Lockhart. “They
will be roving around the school today delivering your valentines!
And the fun doesn’t stop here! I’m sure my colleagues will want to
enter into the spirit of the occasion! Why not ask Professor Snape
to show you how to whip up a Love Potion! And while you’re at it,
Professor Flitwick knows more about Entrancing Enchantments
than any wizard I’ve ever met, the sly old dog!”
Professor Flitwick buried his face in his hands. Snape was look-

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 237 

ing as though the first person to ask him for a Love Potion would
be force-fed poison.
“Please, Hermione, tell me you weren’t one of the forty-six,” said

Ron as they left the Great Hall for their first lesson. Hermione sud-
denly became very interested in searching her bag for her schedule

and didn’t answer.
All day long, the dwarfs kept barging into their classes to deliver

valentines, to the annoyance of the teachers, and late that after-
noon as the Gryffindors were walking upstairs for Charms, one of

the dwarfs caught up with Harry.
“Oy, you! ’Arry Potter!” shouted a particularly grim-looking
dwarf, elbowing people out of the way to get to Harry.
Hot all over at the thought of being given a valentine in front of
a line of first years, which happened to include Ginny Weasley,
Harry tried to escape. The dwarf, however, cut his way through the
crowd by kicking people’s shins, and reached him before he’d gone
two paces.
“I’ve got a musical message to deliver to ’Arry Potter in person,”
he said, twanging his harp in a threatening sort of way.
“Not here,” Harry hissed, trying to escape.
“Stay still !” grunted the dwarf, grabbing hold of Harry’s bag and
pulling him back.
“Let me go!” Harry snarled, tugging.
With a loud ripping noise, his bag split in two. His books, wand,
parchment, and quill spilled onto the floor and his ink bottle
smashed over everything.
Harry scrambled around, trying to pick it all up before the dwarf
started singing, causing something of a holdup in the corridor.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 238 

“What’s going on here?” came the cold, drawling voice of Draco
Malfoy. Harry started stuffing everything feverishly into his ripped
bag, desperate to get away before Malfoy could hear his musical
valentine.
“What’s all this commotion?” said another familiar voice as
Percy Weasley arrived.
Losing his head, Harry tried to make a run for it, but the dwarf
seized him around the knees and brought him crashing to the floor.
“Right,” he said, sitting on Harry’s ankles. “Here is your singing
valentine:

His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad,
His hair is as dark as a blackboard.
I wish he was mine, he’s really divine,
The hero who conquered the Dark Lord.”

Harry would have given all the gold in Gringotts to evaporate on
the spot. Trying valiantly to laugh along with everyone else, he got
up, his feet numb from the weight of the dwarf, as Percy Weasley did
his best to disperse the crowd, some of whom were crying with mirth.
“Off you go, off you go, the bell rang five minutes ago, off to
class, now,” he said, shooing some of the younger students away.
“And you, Malfoy —”

Harry, glancing over, saw Malfoy stoop and snatch up some-
thing. Leering, he showed it to Crabbe and Goyle, and Harry real-
ized that he’d got Riddle’s diary.

“Give that back,” said Harry quietly.
“Wonder what Potter’s written in this?” said Malfoy, who obvi-

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 239 

ously hadn’t noticed the year on the cover and thought he had

Harry’s own diary. A hush fell over the onlookers. Ginny was star-
ing from the diary to Harry, looking terrified.

“Hand it over, Malfoy,” said Percy sternly.

“When I’ve had a look,” said Malfoy, waving the diary taunt-
ingly at Harry.

Percy said, “As a school prefect —” but Harry had lost his tem-
per. He pulled out his wand and shouted, “Expelliarmus!” and just

as Snape had disarmed Lockhart, so Malfoy found the diary shoot-
ing out of his hand into the air. Ron, grinning broadly, caught it.

“Harry!” said Percy loudly. “No magic in the corridors. I’ll have
to report this, you know!”
But Harry didn’t care, he was one-up on Malfoy, and that was

worth five points from Gryffindor any day. Malfoy was looking fu-
rious, and as Ginny passed him to enter her classroom, he yelled

spitefully after her, “I don’t think Potter liked your valentine
much!”
Ginny covered her face with her hands and ran into class.
Snarling, Ron pulled out his wand, too, but Harry pulled him
away. Ron didn’t need to spend the whole of Charms belching
slugs.
It wasn’t until they had reached Professor Flitwick’s class that
Harry noticed something rather odd about Riddle’s diary. All his
other books were drenched in scarlet ink. The diary, however, was
as clean as it had been before the ink bottle had smashed all over it.
He tried to point this out to Ron, but Ron was having trouble with
his wand again; large purple bubbles were blossoming out of the
end, and he wasn’t much interested in anything else.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 240 
  

Harry went to bed before anyone else in his dormitory that night.
This was partly because he didn’t think he could stand Fred and
George singing, “His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad” one
more time, and partly because he wanted to examine Riddle’s diary
again, and knew that Ron thought he was wasting his time.
Harry sat on his four-poster and flicked through the blank
pages, not one of which had a trace of scarlet ink on it. Then he
pulled a new bottle out of his bedside cabinet, dipped his quill into
it, and dropped a blot onto the first page of the diary.
The ink shone brightly on the paper for a second and then, as
though it was being sucked into the page, vanished. Excited, Harry
loaded up his quill a second time and wrote, “My name is Harry
Potter.”
The words shone momentarily on the page and they, too, sank
without trace. Then, at last, something happened.
Oozing back out of the page, in his very own ink, came words
Harry had never written.
“Hello, Harry Potter. My name is Tom Riddle. How did you come
by my diary?”
These words, too, faded away, but not before Harry had started
to scribble back.
“Someone tried to flush it down a toilet.”
He waited eagerly for Riddle’s reply.
“Lucky that I recorded my memories in some more lasting way than
ink. But I always knew that there would be those who would not want
this diary read.”
“What do you mean?” Harry scrawled, blotting the page in his
excitement.

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 241 

“I mean that this diary holds memories of terrible things. Things
that were covered up. Things that happened at Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry.”

“That’s where I am now,” Harry wrote quickly. “I’m at Hog-
warts, and horrible stuff’s been happening. Do you know anything

about the Chamber of Secrets?”

His heart was hammering. Riddle’s reply came quickly, his writ-
ing becoming untidier, as though he was hurrying to tell all he

knew.
“Of course I know about the Chamber of Secrets. In my day, they
told us it was a legend, that it did not exist. But this was a lie. In my
fifth year, the Chamber was opened and the monster attacked several
students, finally killing one. I caught the person who’d opened the
Chamber and he was expelled. But the headmaster, Professor Dippet,
ashamed that such a thing had happened at Hogwarts, forbade me to

tell the truth. A story was given out that the girl had died in a freak ac-
cident. They gave me a nice, shiny, engraved trophy for my trouble and

warned me to keep my mouth shut. But I knew it could happen again.
The monster lived on, and the one who had the power to release it was
not imprisoned.”
Harry nearly upset his ink bottle in his hurry to write back.
“It’s happening again now. There have been three attacks and no
one seems to know who’s behind them. Who was it last time?”
“I can show you, if you like,” came Riddle’s reply. “You don’t have
to take my word for it. I can take you inside my memory of the night
when I caught him.”
Harry hesitated, his quill suspended over the diary. What did

Riddle mean? How could he be taken inside somebody else’s mem-
ory? He glanced nervously at the door to the dormitory, which was

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 242 

growing dark. When he looked back at the diary, he saw fresh
words forming.
“Let me show you.”
Harry paused for a fraction of a second and then wrote two
letters.
“OK.”
The pages of the diary began to blow as though caught in a high

wind, stopping halfway through the month of June. Mouth hang-
ing open, Harry saw that the little square for June thirteenth

seemed to have turned into a minuscule television screen. His
hands trembling slightly, he raised the book to press his eye against
the little window, and before he knew what was happening, he was
tilting forward; the window was widening, he felt his body leave his
bed, and he was pitched headfirst through the opening in the page,
into a whirl of color and shadow.
He felt his feet hit solid ground, and stood, shaking, as the
blurred shapes around him came suddenly into focus.
He knew immediately where he was. This circular room with the
sleeping portraits was Dumbledore’s office — but it wasn’t

Dumbledore who was sitting behind the desk. A wizened, frail-
looking wizard, bald except for a few wisps of white hair, was read-
ing a letter by candlelight. Harry had never seen this man before.

“I’m sorry,” he said shakily. “I didn’t mean to butt in —”
But the wizard didn’t look up. He continued to read, frowning
slightly. Harry drew nearer to his desk and stammered, “Er — I’ll
just go, shall I?”
Still the wizard ignored him. He didn’t seem even to have heard
him. Thinking that the wizard might be deaf, Harry raised his
voice.

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 243 

“Sorry I disturbed you. I’ll go now,” he half-shouted.
The wizard folded up the letter with a sigh, stood up, walked
past Harry without glancing at him, and went to draw the curtains
at his window.

The sky outside the window was ruby-red; it seemed to be sun-
set. The wizard went back to the desk, sat down, and twiddled his

thumbs, watching the door.
Harry looked around the office. No Fawkes the phoenix — no
whirring silver contraptions. This was Hogwarts as Riddle had
known it, meaning that this unknown wizard was headmaster, not

Dumbledore, and he, Harry, was little more than a phantom, com-
pletely invisible to the people of fifty years ago.

There was a knock on the office door.
“Enter,” said the old wizard in a feeble voice.

A boy of about sixteen entered, taking off his pointed hat. A sil-
ver prefect’s badge was glinting on his chest. He was much taller

than Harry, but he, too, had jet-black hair.
“Ah, Riddle,” said the headmaster.
“You wanted to see me, Professor Dippet?” said Riddle. He
looked nervous.
“Sit down,” said Dippet. “I’ve just been reading the letter you
sent me.”
“Oh,” said Riddle. He sat down, gripping his hands together
very tightly.
“My dear boy,” said Dippet kindly, “I cannot possibly let you
stay at school over the summer. Surely you want to go home for the
holidays?”
“No,” said Riddle at once. “I’d much rather stay at Hogwarts
than go back to that — to that —”

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 244 

“You live in a Muggle orphanage during the holidays, I believe?”
said Dippet curiously.
“Yes, sir,” said Riddle, reddening slightly.
“You are Muggle-born?”
“Half-blood, sir,” said Riddle. “Muggle father, witch mother.”
“And are both your parents — ?”
“My mother died just after I was born, sir. They told me at the
orphanage she lived just long enough to name me — Tom after my
father, Marvolo after my grandfather.”
Dippet clucked his tongue sympathetically.
“The thing is, Tom,” he sighed, “special arrangements might
have been made for you, but in the current circumstances. . . .”
“You mean all these attacks, sir?” said Riddle, and Harry’s heart
leapt, and he moved closer, scared of missing anything.
“Precisely,” said the headmaster. “My dear boy, you must see
how foolish it would be of me to allow you to remain at the castle
when term ends. Particularly in light of the recent tragedy . . . the

death of that poor little girl. . . . You will be safer by far at your or-
phanage. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of Magic is even now

talking about closing the school. We are no nearer locating the —
er — source of all this unpleasantness. . . .”
Riddle’s eyes had widened.
“Sir — if the person was caught — if it all stopped —”
“What do you mean?” said Dippet with a squeak in his voice,
sitting up in his chair. “Riddle, do you mean you know something
about these attacks?”
“No, sir,” said Riddle quickly.
But Harry was sure it was the same sort of “no” that he himself
had given Dumbledore.

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 245 

Dippet sank back, looking faintly disappointed.
“You may go, Tom. . . .”

Riddle slid off his chair and slouched out of the room. Harry fol-
lowed him.

Down the moving spiral staircase they went, emerging next to
the gargoyle in the darkening corridor. Riddle stopped, and so
did Harry, watching him. Harry could tell that Riddle was doing

some serious thinking. He was biting his lip, his forehead fur-
rowed.

Then, as though he had suddenly reached a decision, he hurried
off, Harry gliding noiselessly behind him. They didn’t see another
person until they reached the entrance hall, when a tall wizard with
long, sweeping auburn hair and a beard called to Riddle from the
marble staircase.
“What are you doing, wandering around this late, Tom?”

Harry gaped at the wizard. He was none other than a fifty-year-
younger Dumbledore.

“I had to see the headmaster, sir,” said Riddle.

“Well, hurry off to bed,” said Dumbledore, giving Riddle ex-
actly the kind of penetrating stare Harry knew so well. “Best not to

roam the corridors these days. Not since . . .”

He sighed heavily, bade Riddle good night, and strode off. Rid-
dle watched him walk out of sight and then, moving quickly,

headed straight down the stone steps to the dungeons, with Harry
in hot pursuit.

But to Harry’s disappointment, Riddle led him not into a hid-
den passageway or a secret tunnel but to the very dungeon in which

Harry had Potions with Snape. The torches hadn’t been lit, and
when Riddle pushed the door almost closed, Harry could only just

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 246 

see him, standing stock-still by the door, watching the passage out-
side.

It felt to Harry that they were there for at least an hour. All he
could see was the figure of Riddle at the door, staring through the

crack, waiting like a statue. And just when Harry had stopped feel-
ing expectant and tense and started wishing he could return to the

present, he heard something move beyond the door.
Someone was creeping along the passage. He heard whoever it
was pass the dungeon where he and Riddle were hidden. Riddle,

quiet as a shadow, edged through the door and followed, Harry tip-
toeing behind him, forgetting that he couldn’t be heard.

For perhaps five minutes they followed the footsteps, until Rid-
dle stopped suddenly, his head inclined in the direction of new

noises. Harry heard a door creak open, and then someone speaking
in a hoarse whisper.
“C’mon . . . gotta get yeh outta here. . . . C’mon now . . . in the
box . . .”
There was something familiar about that voice. . . .
Riddle suddenly jumped around the corner. Harry stepped
out behind him. He could see the dark outline of a huge boy
who was crouching in front of an open door, a very large box next
to it.
“ ’Evening, Rubeus,” said Riddle sharply.
The boy slammed the door shut and stood up.
“What yer doin’ down here, Tom?”
Riddle stepped closer.
“It’s all over,” he said. “I’m going to have to turn you in, Rubeus.
They’re talking about closing Hogwarts if the attacks don’t stop.”

THE VERY SECRET DIARY

 247 

“What d’yeh —”
“I don’t think you meant to kill anyone. But monsters don’t
make good pets. I suppose you just let it out for exercise and —”
“It never killed no one!” said the large boy, backing against the
closed door. From behind him, Harry could hear a funny rustling
and clicking.
“Come on, Rubeus,” said Riddle, moving yet closer. “The dead
girl’s parents will be here tomorrow. The least Hogwarts can do is

make sure that the thing that killed their daughter is slaugh-
tered. . . .”

“It wasn’t him!” roared the boy, his voice echoing in the dark
passage. “He wouldn’! He never!”
“Stand aside,” said Riddle, drawing out his wand.
His spell lit the corridor with a sudden flaming light. The door
behind the large boy flew open with such force it knocked him into
the wall opposite. And out of it came something that made Harry
let out a long, piercing scream unheard by anyone —
A vast, low-slung, hairy body and a tangle of black legs; a gleam
of many eyes and a pair of razor-sharp pincers — Riddle raised his
wand again, but he was too late. The thing bowled him over as it
scuttled away, tearing up the corridor and out of sight. Riddle
scrambled to his feet, looking after it; he raised his wand, but the
huge boy leapt on him, seized his wand, and threw him back down,
yelling, “NOOOOOOO!”
The scene whirled, the darkness became complete; Harry felt
himself falling and, with a crash, he landed spread-eagled on his
four-poster in the Gryffindor dormitory, Riddle’s diary lying open
on his stomach.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 248 

Before he had had time to regain his breath, the dormitory door
opened and Ron came in.
“There you are,” he said.
Harry sat up. He was sweating and shaking.
“What’s up?” said Ron, looking at him with concern.
“It was Hagrid, Ron. Hagrid opened the Chamber of Secrets
fifty years ago.”

C H A P T E R F O U R T E E N

 249 

CORNELIUS FUDGE

arry, Ron, and Hermione had always known that Hagrid

had an unfortunate liking for large and monstrous crea-
tures. During their first year at Hogwarts he had tried to raise a

dragon in his little wooden house, and it would be a long time
before they forgot the giant, three-headed dog he’d christened

“Fluffy.” And if, as a boy, Hagrid had heard that a monster was hid-
den somewhere in the castle, Harry was sure he’d have gone to any

lengths for a glimpse of it. He’d probably thought it was a shame

that the monster had been cooped up so long, and thought it de-
served the chance to stretch its many legs; Harry could just imag-
ine the thirteen-year-old Hagrid trying to fit a leash and collar on

it. But he was equally certain that Hagrid would never have meant
to kill anybody.

Harry half wished he hadn’t found out how to work Riddle’s di-
ary. Again and again Ron and Hermione made him recount what

H

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 250 

he’d seen, until he was heartily sick of telling them and sick of the
long, circular conversations that followed.
“Riddle might have got the wrong person,” said Hermione.
“Maybe it was some other monster that was attacking people. . . .”
“How many monsters d’you think this place can hold?” Ron
asked dully.

“We always knew Hagrid had been expelled,” said Harry miser-
ably. “And the attacks must’ve stopped after Hagrid was kicked out.

Otherwise, Riddle wouldn’t have got his award.”
Ron tried a different tack.
“Riddle does sound like Percy — who asked him to squeal on
Hagrid, anyway?”
“But the monster had killed someone, Ron,” said Hermione.
“And Riddle was going to go back to some Muggle orphanage if
they closed Hogwarts,” said Harry. “I don’t blame him for wanting
to stay here. . . .”
“You met Hagrid down Knockturn Alley, didn’t you, Harry?”
“He was buying a Flesh-Eating Slug Repellent,” said Harry
quickly.
The three of them fell silent. After a long pause, Hermione
voiced the knottiest question of all in a hesitant voice.
“Do you think we should go and ask Hagrid about it all?”
“That’d be a cheerful visit,” said Ron. “ ‘Hello, Hagrid. Tell us,
have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose in the castle
lately?’ ”
In the end, they decided that they would not say anything to
Hagrid unless there was another attack, and as more and more days
went by with no whisper from the disembodied voice, they became

CORNELIUS FUDGE

 251 

hopeful that they would never need to talk to him about why he
had been expelled. It was now nearly four months since Justin and
Nearly Headless Nick had been Petrified, and nearly everybody
seemed to think that the attacker, whoever it was, had retired for
good. Peeves had finally got bored of his “Oh, Potter, you rotter”
song, Ernie Macmillan asked Harry quite politely to pass a bucket
of leaping toadstools in Herbology one day, and in March several
of the Mandrakes threw a loud and raucous party in greenhouse
three. This made Professor Sprout very happy.
“The moment they start trying to move into each other’s pots,
we’ll know they’re fully mature,” she told Harry. “Then we’ll be
able to revive those poor people in the hospital wing.”
The second years were given something new to think about during
their Easter holidays. The time had come to choose their subjects

for the third year, a matter that Hermione, at least, took very seri-
ously.

“It could affect our whole future,” she told Harry and Ron as
they pored over lists of new subjects, marking them with checks.
“I just want to give up Potions,” said Harry.
“We can’t,” said Ron gloomily. “We keep all our old subjects, or
I’d’ve ditched Defense Against the Dark Arts.”
“But that’s very important!” said Hermione, shocked.
“Not the way Lockhart teaches it,” said Ron. “I haven’t learned
anything from him except not to set pixies loose.”
Neville Longbottom had been sent letters from all the witches
and wizards in his family, all giving him different advice on what to
choose. Confused and worried, he sat reading the subject lists with

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 252 

his tongue poking out, asking people whether they thought Arith-
mancy sounded more difficult than the study of Ancient Runes.

Dean Thomas, who, like Harry, had grown up with Muggles,
ended up closing his eyes and jabbing his wand at the list, then
picking the subjects it landed on. Hermione took nobody’s advice
but signed up for everything.
Harry smiled grimly to himself at the thought of what Uncle
Vernon and Aunt Petunia would say if he tried to discuss his career
in wizardry with them. Not that he didn’t get any guidance: Percy
Weasley was eager to share his experience.
“Depends where you want to go, Harry,” he said. “It’s never too

early to think about the future, so I’d recommend Divination. Peo-
ple say Muggle Studies is a soft option, but I personally think wiz-
ards should have a thorough understanding of the non-magical

community, particularly if they’re thinking of working in close

contact with them — look at my father, he has to deal with Mug-
gle business all the time. My brother Charlie was always more of an

outdoor type, so he went for Care of Magical Creatures. Play to your
strengths, Harry.”

But the only thing Harry felt he was really good at was Quid-
ditch. In the end, he chose the same new subjects as Ron, feeling

that if he was lousy at them, at least he’d have someone friendly to
help him.
Gryffindor’s next Quidditch match would be against Hufflepuff.
Wood was insisting on team practices every night after dinner, so

that Harry barely had time for anything but Quidditch and home-
work. However, the training sessions were getting better, or at least

CORNELIUS FUDGE

 253 

drier, and the evening before Saturday’s match he went up to his
dormitory to drop off his broomstick feeling Gryffindor’s chances
for the Quidditch Cup had never been better.
But his cheerful mood didn’t last long. At the top of the stairs
to the dormitory, he met Neville Longbottom, who was looking
frantic.
“Harry — I don’t know who did it — I just found —”
Watching Harry fearfully, Neville pushed open the door.
The contents of Harry’s trunk had been thrown everywhere. His
cloak lay ripped on the floor. The bedclothes had been pulled off
his four-poster and the drawer had been pulled out of his bedside
cabinet, the contents strewn over the mattress.
Harry walked over to the bed, openmouthed, treading on a few

loose pages of Travels with Trolls. As he and Neville pulled the blan-
kets back onto his bed, Ron, Dean, and Seamus came in. Dean

swore loudly.
“What happened, Harry?”
“No idea,” said Harry. But Ron was examining Harry’s robes. All
the pockets were hanging out.
“Someone’s been looking for something,” said Ron. “Is there
anything missing?”
Harry started to pick up all his things and throw them into his
trunk. It was only as he threw the last of the Lockhart books back
into it that he realized what wasn’t there.
“Riddle’s diary’s gone,” he said in an undertone to Ron.
“What?”

Harry jerked his head toward the dormitory door and Ron fol-
lowed him out. They hurried down to the Gryffindor common

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 254 

room, which was half-empty, and joined Hermione, who was sit-
ting alone, reading a book called Ancient Runes Made Easy.

Hermione looked aghast at the news.
“But — only a Gryffindor could have stolen — nobody else
knows our password —”
“Exactly,” said Harry.
They woke the next day to brilliant sunshine and a light, refreshing
breeze.
“Perfect Quidditch conditions!” said Wood enthusiastically at
the Gryffindor table, loading the team’s plates with scrambled eggs.
“Harry, buck up there, you need a decent breakfast.”

Harry had been staring down the packed Gryffindor table, won-
dering if the new owner of Riddle’s diary was right in front of his

eyes. Hermione had been urging him to report the robbery, but
Harry didn’t like the idea. He’d have to tell a teacher all about the
diary, and how many people knew why Hagrid had been expelled
fifty years ago? He didn’t want to be the one who brought it all up
again.

As he left the Great Hall with Ron and Hermione to go and col-
lect his Quidditch things, another very serious worry was added to

Harry’s growing list. He had just set foot on the marble staircase
when he heard it yet again —
“Kill this time . . . let me rip . . . tear . . .”
He shouted aloud and Ron and Hermione both jumped away
from him in alarm.
“The voice!” said Harry, looking over his shoulder. “I just heard
it again — didn’t you?”

CORNELIUS FUDGE

 255 

Ron shook his head, wide-eyed. Hermione, however, clapped a
hand to her forehead.
“Harry — I think I’ve just understood something! I’ve got to go
to the library!”
And she sprinted away, up the stairs.

“What does she understand?” said Harry distractedly, still look-
ing around, trying to tell where the voice had come from.

“Loads more than I do,” said Ron, shaking his head.
“But why’s she got to go to the library?”
“Because that’s what Hermione does,” said Ron, shrugging.
“When in doubt, go to the library.”
Harry stood, irresolute, trying to catch the voice again, but

people were now emerging from the Great Hall behind him, talk-
ing loudly, exiting through the front doors on their way to the

Quidditch pitch.
“You’d better get moving,” said Ron. “It’s nearly eleven — the
match —”
Harry raced up to Gryffindor Tower, collected his Nimbus Two
Thousand, and joined the large crowd swarming across the
grounds, but his mind was still in the castle along with the bodiless
voice, and as he pulled on his scarlet robes in the locker room, his
only comfort was that everyone was now outside to watch the
game.
The teams walked onto the field to tumultuous applause. Oliver
Wood took off for a warm-up flight around the goal posts; Madam
Hooch released the balls. The Hufflepuffs, who played in canary
yellow, were standing in a huddle, having a last-minute discussion
of tactics.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 256 

Harry was just mounting his broom when Professor McGona-
gall came half marching, half running across the pitch, carrying an

enormous purple megaphone.
Harry’s heart dropped like a stone.
“This match has been canceled,” Professor McGonagall called
through the megaphone, addressing the packed stadium. There were
boos and shouts. Oliver Wood, looking devastated, landed and ran
toward Professor McGonagall without getting off his broomstick.
“But, Professor!” he shouted. “We’ve got to play — the Cup —
Gryffindor —”
Professor McGonagall ignored him and continued to shout
through her megaphone:
“All students are to make their way back to the House common

rooms, where their Heads of Houses will give them further infor-
mation. As quickly as you can, please!”

Then she lowered the megaphone and beckoned Harry over to
her.
“Potter, I think you’d better come with me. . . .”
Wondering how she could possibly suspect him this time, Harry
saw Ron detach himself from the complaining crowd; he came

running up to them as they set off toward the castle. To Harry’s sur-
prise, Professor McGonagall didn’t object.

“Yes, perhaps you’d better come, too, Weasley. . . .”
Some of the students swarming around them were grumbling
about the match being canceled; others looked worried. Harry and
Ron followed Professor McGonagall back into the school and up
the marble staircase. But they weren’t taken to anybody’s office this
time.

CORNELIUS FUDGE

 257 

“This will be a bit of a shock,” said Professor McGonagall in a
surprisingly gentle voice as they approached the infirmary. “There
has been another attack . . . another double attack.”
Harry’s insides did a horrible somersault. Professor McGonagall
pushed the door open and he and Ron entered.
Madam Pomfrey was bending over a sixth-year girl with long,

curly hair. Harry recognized her as the Ravenclaw they’d acciden-
tally asked for directions to the Slytherin common room. And on

the bed next to her was —
“Hermione!” Ron groaned.
Hermione lay utterly still, her eyes open and glassy.
“They were found near the library,” said Professor McGonagall.
“I don’t suppose either of you can explain this? It was on the floor
next to them. . . .”
She was holding up a small, circular mirror.
Harry and Ron shook their heads, both staring at Hermione.

“I will escort you back to Gryffindor Tower,” said Profes-
sor McGonagall heavily. “I need to address the students in any

case.”
“All students will return to their House common rooms by six
o’clock in the evening. No student is to leave the dormitories after

that time. You will be escorted to each lesson by a teacher. No stu-
dent is to use the bathroom unaccompanied by a teacher. All fur-
ther Quidditch training and matches are to be postponed. There

will be no more evening activities.”
The Gryffindors packed inside the common room listened to
Professor McGonagall in silence. She rolled up the parchment

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 258 

from which she had been reading and said in a somewhat choked
voice, “I need hardly add that I have rarely been so distressed. It is
likely that the school will be closed unless the culprit behind these
attacks is caught. I would urge anyone who thinks they might
know anything about them to come forward.”
She climbed somewhat awkwardly out of the portrait hole, and
the Gryffindors began talking immediately.
“That’s two Gryffindors down, not counting a Gryffindor ghost,
one Ravenclaw, and one Hufflepuff,” said the Weasley twins’ friend
Lee Jordan, counting on his fingers. “Haven’t any of the teachers
noticed that the Slytherins are all safe? Isn’t it obvious all this stuff’s
coming from Slytherin? The Heir of Slytherin, the monster of
Slytherin — why don’t they just chuck all the Slytherins out?” he
roared, to nods and scattered applause.
Percy Weasley was sitting in a chair behind Lee, but for once he
didn’t seem keen to make his views heard. He was looking pale and
stunned.
“Percy’s in shock,” George told Harry quietly. “That Ravenclaw
girl — Penelope Clearwater — she’s a prefect. I don’t think he
thought the monster would dare attack a prefect.”
But Harry was only half-listening. He didn’t seem to be able to
get rid of the picture of Hermione, lying on the hospital bed as
though carved out of stone. And if the culprit wasn’t caught soon,
he was looking at a lifetime back with the Dursleys. Tom Riddle
had turned Hagrid in because he was faced with the prospect of a
Muggle orphanage if the school closed. Harry now knew exactly
how he had felt.
“What’re we going to do?” said Ron quietly in Harry’s ear.
“D’you think they suspect Hagrid?”

CORNELIUS FUDGE

 259 

“We’ve got to go and talk to him,” said Harry, making up his
mind. “I can’t believe it’s him this time, but if he set the monster
loose last time he’ll know how to get inside the Chamber of Secrets,
and that’s a start.”
“But McGonagall said we’ve got to stay in our tower unless we’re
in class —”
“I think,” said Harry, more quietly still, “it’s time to get my dad’s
old cloak out again.”

Harry had inherited just one thing from his father: a long and sil-
very Invisibility Cloak. It was their only chance of sneaking out of

the school to visit Hagrid without anyone knowing about it. They

went to bed at the usual time, waited until Neville, Dean, and Sea-
mus had stopped discussing the Chamber of Secrets and finally

fallen asleep, then got up, dressed again, and threw the cloak over
themselves.
The journey through the dark and deserted castle corridors

wasn’t enjoyable. Harry, who had wandered the castle at night sev-
eral times before, had never seen it so crowded after sunset. Teach-
ers, prefects, and ghosts were marching the corridors in pairs,

staring around for any unusual activity. Their Invisibility Cloak
didn’t stop them making any noise, and there was a particularly
tense moment when Ron stubbed his toe only yards from the spot
where Snape stood standing guard. Thankfully, Snape sneezed at
almost exactly the moment Ron swore. It was with relief that they
reached the oak front doors and eased them open.
It was a clear, starry night. They hurried toward the lit windows
of Hagrid’s house and pulled off the cloak only when they were
right outside his front door.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 260 

Seconds after they had knocked, Hagrid flung it open. They
found themselves face-to-face with him aiming a crossbow at them.
Fang the boarhound barked loudly behind him.
“Oh,” he said, lowering the weapon and staring at them.
“What’re you two doin’ here?”
“What’s that for?” said Harry, pointing at the crossbow as they
stepped inside.
“Nothin’ — nothin’ — “ Hagrid muttered. “I’ve bin expectin’ —
doesn’ matter — Sit down — I’ll make tea —”

He hardly seemed to know what he was doing. He nearly extin-
guished the fire, spilling water from the kettle on it, and then

smashed the teapot with a nervous jerk of his massive hand.
“Are you okay, Hagrid?” said Harry. “Did you hear about
Hermione?”
“Oh, I heard, all righ’,” said Hagrid, a slight break in his voice.
He kept glancing nervously at the windows. He poured them
both large mugs of boiling water (he had forgotten to add tea bags)
and was just putting a slab of fruitcake on a plate when there was a
loud knock on the door.

Hagrid dropped the fruitcake. Harry and Ron exchanged panic-
stricken looks, then threw the Invisibility Cloak back over them-
selves and retreated into a corner. Hagrid checked that they were

hidden, seized his crossbow, and flung open his door once more.
“Good evening, Hagrid.”
It was Dumbledore. He entered, looking deadly serious, and was
followed by a second, very odd-looking man.
The stranger had rumpled gray hair and an anxious expression,
and was wearing a strange mixture of clothes: a pinstriped suit, a

