The 9 Steps That Will Help You Learn Anything
Learning new things while maintaining your role as a leader, visionary, and committed worker is challenging, but not impossible.
As an entrepreneur, you’ll be doing a lot of learning, if you want to be successful, that is. You’ll learn skills, which you can apply to your daily tasks and operations; facts and information about your industry, vendors and competition; and of course lessons on how to improve yourself.
But while you’re juggling the daily responsibilities of entrepreneurship and racking your brain to solve the problems associated with them, you may find it difficult to learn new things.
These nine steps will help you learn anything, faster and more efficiently:

1. Talk to someone who’s already learned it.
Think of something challenging you learned how to do, possibly on your own, from the ground up. You probably made a lot of mistakes along the way, and in retrospect, you probably know some shortcuts and tips that could have saved you a lot of time. This is almost universally true; even the most technical and complex subjects have shortcuts that can be taught by anyone familiar enough with the material.

Your first step, then, is to seek out and talk to people who have already learned what you’re learning; ask them for advice, and you’ll probably get it.
2. Immerse yourself in the learning process.
By now, you should know that multitasking is bad. When your brain tries to do multiple things at once (consciously), it usually ends up failing at everything. If you’re going to learn something, you need to immerse yourself in the learning process. If you’re taking lessons, or are reading a book, or are watching online videos, isolate yourself and focus only on that task.

Turn off notifications, and don’t let yourself get distracted. You’ll learn much faster and easier this way.
3. Learn in short bursts.
The best way to study (and preserve your attention) is to focus your efforts in short bursts, as in 20-to-30 minute chunks. Any longer than that, and your attention will start to dwindle. Try to schedule your learning sessions in these short blocks, rather than aiming for occasional marathon sessions.

4. Write everything down.
For multiple reasons, we tend to remember things better once we’ve written them down. It could be because we’re forced to repeat what we’re hearing and thinking in a written format, or it could be a psychological “trick” that teaches our mind that this particular information is worth remembering. Either way, it works. Whether you’re taking notes or committing a lesson to memory, write everything down that you can.

5. Focus on the fundamentals.
When learning something new, it’s helpful to ignore the fluff and focus purely on the most important elements of your subject. For example, if you can learn the 2,000 most common words of a language, you’ll be able to cover roughly 80 percent of the language. If you’re learning chess, memorizing openings probably isn’t as important as mastering the mid-game and basic tactics like skewering.

6. Find a way to self-correct.
Our minds learn best when we’re met with immediate feedback. If something’s right, we need to feel rewarded. If something’s wrong, we should be corrected immediately; this also prevents us from practicing or rehearsing the wrong things. Your system of feedback may depend on an outside party, or semi-constant check-ins with a source (e.g., a book) to ensure you’re getting things right.
7. Practice consistently.
There’s a common belief that it takes about 10,000 hours of practice for anyone to get good at anything -- perpetuated by the book Outliers, by Malcolm Gladwell. Empirical evidence suggests this isn’t quite true, but there’s certainly a wealth of evidence that practice and repetition are your best tools for learning.

This is the way our brains are wired; the more we do something, the more important it becomes, and the more entrenched it becomes in our memory.

8. Explain what you’ve learned to someone else.
If you want to test your knowledge on a subject, try explaining it to someone else. This forces you to reword your innate knowledge, and revisit it from the ground up. It’s a perfect test to see if you’ve truly internalized something -- or if you’ve just been going through the motions of learning.
9. Avoid the dip.
The “Dip,” a term coined by Seth Godin, occurs when you reach a point of dissatisfaction or disinterest with your learning. You might no longer see the novelty in your subject matter or you might be feeling burned out; in any case, you’ll lose momentum, stop studying and fail to master your skill or knowledge.

You can avoid the dip by making your studying habits continually rewarding; set up milestones along the way, and experiment with new learning tactics to keep from getting bored.

Learning new things while maintaining your role as a leader, visionary and committed worker can be challenging, but it certainly isn’t impossible. With these strategies, you’ll be able to learn faster and more efficiently than ever before.

Anyone Can Learn Anything
Are there some people who intrinsically cannot learn? Are there some people who can only learn some things? I don’t think so. In fact, I think anyone can learn anything under the right circumstances.

For all those who struggle with one subject or another, this may seem improbable or even utterly wrong. We all feel more adept in some areas than other ones. We all know how difficult, how impossible, learning math can seem for many.

But even if we lack definitive research to prove this notion of human potential, liberated from cultural and socioeconomic constraints, imagine what doors open if we fully embraced the possibility. Imagine if we treat this notion that anyone can learn anything as a first principle, a responsibility to recognize and serve.

The implications are enormous, challenging educators and other policymakers to rethink the design of our schools and classrooms, and encouraging everyone who gave up on learning something because they believed they lacked the ability to grasp it.

As educators, this pushes us to ask how we have failed to create the conditions where our students can learn anything, and to think through the conditions needed to fully support learning so that any student can reach their potential. 

It may seem improbable to achieve this goal, but this should not be a reason to ignore it. Quite the contrary, this may be exactly the reason to pursue it. Because once we open up this possibility, we open up a way of thinking that challenges us to find solutions that can enhance teaching and learning.

This includes fully recognizing there are different kinds of intelligence and different ways people learn. Harvard educator Howard Gardner’s groundbreaking work posits that there are eight kinds of intelligence, and that we all draw from multiple realms. This reinforces what we already know intuitively: that there is not one path or one way to teach or learn. It puts the onus on our schools, at every level, to recognize and serve this individuality.

How far we still have to go, particularly because socioeconomic differences have essentially cut off large swaths of our population from educational advancement. Talent and ability are not determined by zip code or family income, nor are those with greater wealth more intrinsically equipped to learn and advance. Yet only 15 percent of the lower half of the US population (based on family income) are likely to get a college degree.  

It is our obligation—morally and for the social and economic benefit of our society—to create the conditions that allow talent to flourish among the most diverse population possible. This is one of the core missions of my university.

Engaging the notion that anyone can learn anything also means asking hard questions about the design of our educational systems and the pressure to categorize and pigeonhole students—to place them in one box, one track, or another.

College students are required to pick a single major, yet often fail to fully explore other fields that are critical to their capacity to identify and grasp complex, multi-faceted problems. Well before they get to college, most students are already inclined (or encouraged) to pursue one subject or related fields where they feel most comfortable and capable, rather than tackling multiple majors or struggling with subjects that previously seemed impenetrable.

“This is what I’m good at,” we often hear, as if that gives us a pass on those other fields that are harder for us.

At Arizona State University, we are working to overcome this tendency by increasing the number of transdisciplinary schools and programs. We encourage students from diverse fields to work with each other and find the common threads that enhance their ability to ask questions that depend upon a wide range of knowledge.

We have seen that this process not only opens up new pathways of understanding and enterprise, it also inspires students to explore worlds that previously may have seemed inaccessible. This has led to a hybrid degree program like arts, media and engineering that draws on the creativity of the arts and methodologies from engineering sciences.

We are also taking advantage of new digital tools to help students fill in the gaps in their knowledge and serve the varied ways and pace that students absorb information and deepen understanding. A struggling college algebra student, for example, can benefit from tools that recognize what’s wrong in a given equation and provide a follow-up question to address the missing piece. Such advances in technology are helping us make a real difference in student outcomes.
Given the scale of the challenge, these might appear as small steps to create the right conditions for achieving human potential. To be sure, by the time most students reach college, the patterns of mind and the cultural pressures are already well-ingrained, making it tough to reshape those well-worn grooves. But it can be done with a shift of attitude, a commitment to rethink and redesign, and the desire to maximize our society’s potential.

The human brain is the most powerful, most complex object in the known universe. It is an unbelievable gift. It is up to all of us to help each other make the most of this bountiful resource. 
While it's nice to think you can hack your way to success, whenever you try to accomplish a huge goal, like starting and growing a business -- skills matter.  Who you know is certainly important.

But what you know, and what you can do, matters a whole lot more.

Which means the faster you learn, the more successful you can be.

So let's jump right in.Here are ten ways, backed by science, to speed up the learning process.
1. Say out loud what you want to remember.

Research shows that compared to reading or thinking silently (as if there's another way to think), the act of speech is a "quite powerful mechanism for improving memory for selected information."

According to scientists, "Learning and memory benefit from active involvement. When we add an active measure or a production element to a word, that word becomes more distinct in long-term memory, and hence more memorable."
In short, while mentally rehearsing is good, rehearsing out loud is even better.

2. Take notes by hand, not on a computer.
Most of us can type faster than we can write. (And a lot more neatly.) 

But research shows handwriting your notes means you'll learn more. Oddly enough, taking notes by hand enhances both comprehension and retention, possibly because instead of just serving as a quasi-stenographer, you're forced to put things in your own words in order to keep up.
Maybe that's why Richard Branson has maintained a lifelong habit of keeping a handwritten journal?

3. Chunk your study sessions.
You're busy. So you wait until the last minute to learn what you need to know: A presentation, a sales demo, an investor pitch... 

Bad idea. Research shows "distributed practice" is a much more effective way to learn. 

Imagine you want to nail your investor pitch. Once you've drafted your pitch, run through it once. Then take a few minutes to make corrections and revisions.

Then step away for a few hours, or even for a day, before you repeat the process.

Why does distributed practice work? The "study-phase retrieval theory" says that each time you attempt to retrieve something from memory and the retrieval is more successful, that memory becomes harder to forget. (If you go over your pitch repeatedly, much of your presentation is still top of mind... which means you don't have to retrieve it from memory.)

Another theory regards "contextual variability."  When information gets encoded into memory, some of the context is also encoded. (Which is why listening to an old song can cause you to remember where you were, what you were feeling, etc., when you first heard that song.) That context creates useful cues for retrieving information.

Regardless of how it works, distributed practice definitely works. So give yourself enough time to space out your learning sessions. You'll learn more efficiently and more effectively.

4. Test yourself. A lot.
A number of studies show that self-testing is an extremely effective way to speed up the learning process.

Partly that's due to the additional context created; if you test yourself and answer incorrectly, not only are you more likely to remember the right answer after you look it up... you'll also remember that you didn't remember. (Getting something wrong is a great way to remember it the next time, especially if you tend to be hard on yourself.)

So don't just rehearse your presentation. Test yourself on what comes after your intro. Test yourself by listing the five main points you want to make. Try to recite key statistics, or sales estimates, or cash flow projections....

Not only will you gain confidence in how much you do know, you'll more quickly learn the things you don't know.

Yet. 

5. Change the way you practice.
Repeating anything over and over again in the hopes you will master that task will not only keep you from improving as quickly as you could, in some cases it may actually decrease your skill. 

According to recent research from Johns Hopkins, if you practice a slightly modified version of a task you want to master, "you actually learn more and faster than if you just keep practicing the exact same thing multiple times in a row." The most likely cause is reconsolidation, a process where existing memories are recalled and modified with new knowledge.

Say you want to master a new presentation. Do this:
1. Rehearse the basic skill. Run through your presentation a couple of times under the same conditions you'll eventually face when you do it live. Naturally, the second time through will be better than the first; that's how practice works. But then, instead of going through it a third time ...

2. Wait. Give yourself at least six hours so your memory can consolidate. (Which probably means waiting until tomorrow before you practice again, which is just fine.)

3. Practice again, but this time...

Go a little faster. Speak a little -- just a little -- faster than you normally do. Run through your slides slightly faster. Increasing your speed means you'll make more mistakes, but that's OK -- in the process, you'll modify old knowledge with new knowledge -- and lay the groundwork for improvement. Or ...
Go a little slower. The same thing will happen. (Plus, you can experiment with new techniques -- including the use of silence for effect -- that aren't apparent when you present at your normal speed.) Or ...
Break your presentation into smaller chunks. Almost every task includes a series of discrete steps. That's definitely true for presentations. Pick one section of your presentation. Deconstruct it. Master it. Then put the whole presentation back together. Or ...

Change the conditions. Use a different projector. Or a different remote. Or a lavaliere instead of a headset mic. Switch up the conditions slightly; not only will that help you modify an existing memory, it will also make you better prepared for the unexpected.
4. And keep modifying the conditions.

You can extend the process to almost anything. While it's clearly effective for learning motor skills, the process can also be applied to learning almost anything. 
6. Exercise regularly.
This study shows that regular exercise can improve memory recall. Another study from McMaster University found that periods of high-intensity exercise are good for fitness and memory: Exercise resulted in significant improvements in high-interference memory. (Interference occurs when information that is similar gets in the way of the information you're trying to recall.) 

A commonly used example for high-interference memory is remembering faces, a skill that is especially useful for people hoping to make connections.
Exercise also resulted in an increase in a chemical called BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), a protein that supports the function, growth, and survival of brain cells.

So: Not only will you feel better if you exercise, you'll also improve your memory.

Win-win.

7. Get more sleep.
Sleep is when most of the memory consolidation process occurs. That's why even a short nap can improve your memory recall.
In one study participants memorized illustrated cards to test their memory strength. After memorizing a set of cards they took a 40-minute break and one group napped while the other group stayed awake. After the break both groups were tested on their memory of the cards. The sleep group performed significantly better, retaining on average 85 percent of the patterns compared to 60 percent for those who had remained awake.

Researchers have also found that sleep deprivation can affect your ability to commit new information to memory and consolidate any short-term memories you have made.

Bottom line? Sleep more, learn more.

8. Learn several subjects in succession.
Instead of blocking (focusing on one subject, one task, or one skill during a learning session) learn or practice several subjects or skills in succession. 

The process is called interleaving: Studying related concepts or skills in parallel. And it turns out interleaving is a much more effective way to train your brain (and your motor skills.) 

Why? One theory is that interleaving improves your brain's ability to differentiate between concepts or skills. When you block practice one skill, you can drill down until muscle memory takes over and the skill becomes more or less automatic. When you interleave several skills, any one skill can't become mindless -- and that's a good thing. Instead you're constantly forced to adapt and adjust. You're constantly forced to see, feel, and discriminate between different movements or different concepts. 

And that helps you really learn what you're trying to learn, because you it helps you gain understanding at a deeper level.
9. Teach someone else.
It may be occasionally true that those who can't, teach... but research shows it's definitely true that those who teach speed up their learning and retain more. 

Even just thinking that you'll need to teach someone can make you learn more effectively. According to the researchers, "When teachers prepare to teach, they tend to seek out key points and organize information into a coherent structure. Our results suggest that students also turn to these types of effective learning strategies when they expect to teach."

The act of teaching also helps improve knowledge. Ask anyone who has trained someone else whether they also benefited from the experience.

They definitely did.

10. Build on things you do know.
Relating something new to something you're familiar with is called associative learning. Not the Pavlov's dog form of associative learning, but the kind where you learn the relationship between seemingly unrelated things.

In simple terms, whenever you say, "Oh, I get it... this is basically like that," you're using associative learning. 

Need to learn something new? Try to associate it, at least in part, with something you already know. Then you only have to learn the differences or nuances. And you'll be able to apply greater context -- which will help with memory storage and retrieval -- to the new information you learn.

All of which means you'll need to learn a lot less.

Which science says will result in you being able to learn a lot more quickly.
Now we will learn to make up
When it comes to applying makeup like a pro, there is a general order you should follow to achieve the best end results. However, different things work for different people, so there isn’t just one perfect way to apply makeup. And if you’re struggling with finding a method or wondering whether you should use concealer before or after foundation, you’ve come to the right place. To help you nail down a good makeup application flow, we’ve created a step-by-step guide you can use to learn how to apply face, eye, and lip makeup. We’ve also included product recommendations for the best foundations, mascaras, and more.
How To Prep Your Face For Makeup
Before applying makeup, it’s important to prep your skin to create a good base. So be sure to complete your skin care routine before reaching for any makeup tools. Check out our three tips below for a quick and easy skin care prep routine. 

Step 1: Facial Cleanser
The first step in your skin care routine should be washing your face. Reach for a facial cleanser, like the L'Oréal Paris Revitalift Bright Reveal Brightening Daily Scrub Cleanser, formulated with gentle micro-pearls and glycolic acid to help exfoliate and reveal brighter skin. It cleanses the skin without leaving it feeling dry and stiff. Squeeze a small amount of product into wet hands then gently massage it onto your skin and rinse off thoroughly. 

Step 2: Facial Serum 
Regardless of your skin type, adding a facial serum to your skin care routine could be very beneficial to the look of your complexion. Use the L'Oréal Paris Age Perfect Cell Renewal Midnight Serum, formulated with an exclusive antioxidant recovery complex that helps boost the skin’s renewal process overnight. It also contains hyaluronic acid—a powerful hydrating ingredient that helps lock in moisture to keep the skin hydrated. Right after cleansing, apply three to four drops of this serum in the morning (yup, you can use it in the daytime) and night to help improve radiance and firmness in the skin. 

Step 3: Moisturizer
Finish off your skin care routine by using a moisturizer that’s formulated for your skin type. Grab the L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Normal/Oily Skin, L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Normal/Dry Skin, or L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Extra Dry Skin. Each of these moisturizers is formulated with hyaluronic acid and aloe vera water for long-lasting hydration.

The Best Order To Apply Face Makeup
After completing your skin care routine, you can begin the makeup process. And if you’re wondering if it’s necessary to use a primer or not sure if concealer should come before or after foundation—we can help. Check out our step-by-step guide below for an easy-to-do makeup routine. 

Step 1: Apply A Primer
Using a primer is key to creating a great base for your beauty look, as it provides a grip for the products and works to extend the wear of your makeup. If you have dry skin grab the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro Glow Lock Makeup Primer, which will help give you a glowing finish. For those with oily skin reach for the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro Matte Lock Makeup Primer, formulated to mattify your complexion. 

Step 2: Color Correct
Have dark under-eye circles or redness you want to cover up? Use a color correcting concealer, like the L'Oréal Paris True Match Color Correcting Crayons, which work to neutralize color and transform complexions. Simply blend a small amount of color-correcting concealer onto targeted areas of the skin using your ring finger.

Step 3: Apply Foundation
Foundation is among the few makeup essentials that you don’t want others to see, meaning it’s supposed to look just like your skin but better. So be sure to choose a formula that suits your specific needs. For example, if you have oily skin, you may want to consider using a matte (a.k.a. non-shiny) finish foundation, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Up to 24H Fresh Wear in a Powder, matte finish. Its breathable and weightless formula stays put for up to 24 hours. The best part? It’s waterproof and sweatproof, so you won’t have to worry about touch-ups throughout the day. 

For those with dry skin, grab a radiant finish foundation, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Glow Foundation, which has a hydrating formula that will help give the skin a glowy look for up to 24 hours. Use a damp makeup blender like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Blend Artist Foundation Blender when applying foundation to get even and natural-looking coverage. 

Step 4: Conceal Your Under Eyes 
Next, apply concealer under your eyes and over any blemishes. Foundation does a good job of covering up, but concealer can target any stubborn imperfections and make them nearly non-existent. For a full-coverage option, try L'Oréal Paris Infallible Full Wear Concealer Waterproof, Full Coverage, which comes in 25 various shades to match every skin tone and undertone. Use the included applicator to blend and buff the concealer into your skin.

For those looking to specifically cover up dark under-eye circles, use the L'Oréal Paris True Match Eye Cream in a Concealer, 0.5% hyaluronic acid. This multitasking product provides 24 hour hydration that works to keep the eye area looking fresh and brighter, thanks to its dose of pure hyaluronic acid. 

Step 5: Contour To Add Dimension To Your Face
Now that you’ve created an even foundation base, it’s time to add dimension by chiseling out your cheekbones and jawlines with some contour. Pick out a contour shade from the L’Oréal Paris Infallible Longwear Shaping Foundation Makeup Sticks, which have a creamy, glide-on formula that easily blends into the skin. 

Step 6: Add Some Glow 
Get your glow on or fake a rosy tone by applying a little bronzer, blush, and highlighter. Reach for the L'Oréal Paris True Match Glow Nude Highlighter Palette, which includes all three products. For bronzer and highlighter, apply them on areas where the sun would naturally hit your face (your forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin). Use a fluffy brush to apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks—and remember to smile while doing so! This will help give you a nice placement and add a pop of color to the cheeks. 

The Best Order To Apply Eye Makeup
Now, it’s time to move on to the eyes—grab your eyebrow pencil, eye shadow, mascara, and get ready to work!

Step 1: Define Your Eyebrows
Sculpt and define your eyebrows using the L'Oréal Paris Brow Stylist Waterproof Eyebrow Mechanical Pencil or the L’Oréal Paris Unbelievabrow Longwear Waterproof Gel. Both products will work to create a natural-looking well-defined arch. 

Step 2: Add Color Your Lids 
When applying eyeshadow, first, dust color onto your lids, then follow up with a crease color, and place a dab of highlighter along your brow bone. For a neutral eye makeup look, use the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Pocket Palette Eyeshadow in Boudoir Charme; for a shimmery nighttime eye makeup look, try the L'Oréal Paris Brilliant Eyes Shimmer Liquid Eye Shadow Makeup. 

Step 3: Line Your Eyes 
We’ve found that it’s easiest to apply eyeliner before mascara and after eyeshadow. Reach for a waterproof eyeliner, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Last Waterproof Pencil Eyeliner. You can even use this eyeliner in your waterline (this technique is called tightlining) for added definition. 

Step 4: Mascara
Finally, go for big bold lashes by using the L’Oréal Paris Air Volume Mega Mascara Lightweight Mega Volume Washable. This mascara features a cushioned double-bristle brush—the short side catches lashes from the root and the long side helps spread the product evenly for fully blown out lashes. Thanks to its air-whipped formula, your lashes won’t feel weighed down.

The Best Order To Apply Lip Makeup
You’re almost at the end! After you’ve finished your face and eye makeup, show your lips some love by swiping on some color. 

Step 1: Lip Liner
Before you apply lipstick, use a lip liner to help prevent color from bleeding, which happens when your lipstick runs or smudges outside of your lip lines. Choose a lip liner and outline the natural line of your lips to help make your pout look fuller. You can also color in your lips with liner before applying lipstick to help create a smooth base. Try the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Lip Liner or L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Matte Lip Liner based on the finish of the lipstick you choose.

Step 2: Lipstick
Next, swipe on your lipstick. With so many different colors and formulas available, the possibilities are nearly endless. Whether you opt for something shiny, like the L'Oréal Paris Brilliant Signature Shiny Lip Stain Lipstick, a matte formula like the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Ultra Matte Highly Pigmented Nude Lipstick, or something super pigmented like the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Les Nus by Colour Riche Intense Nude Lipstick, your pout is sure to look stunning.

How To Set Your Makeup Look
After all your work, it’s essential to set your makeup to ensure that it stays in place and lasts throughout the day. Apply a few spritzes of the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Spray & Makeup Extender Setting Spray, formulated to set and prevent your makeup from settling into fine lines. 

Shake well and hold the bottle about eight inches away from your face. Close your eyes and spray it four to six times in an X and T motion. 
How To Remove Your Makeup At The End Of The Day
Sleeping in your makeup can lead to clogged pores—and clogged pores can lead to breakouts. So make sure to remove your makeup by using the L'Oréal Paris Micellar Cleansing Water Complete Cleanser Waterproof – All Skin Types. It will help lift dirt and oil from the skin so you don’t lay foundation over bacteria that can cause breakouts. There’s also no rinsing required, making it ideal for a quick cleanse. Pour some of the product onto a cotton pad, wipe the pad across your face, eyes, and lips.