When it comes to applying makeup like a pro, there is a general order you should follow to achieve the best end results. However, different things work for different people, so there isn’t just one perfect way to apply makeup. And if you’re struggling with finding a method or wondering whether you should use concealer before or after foundation, you’ve come to the right place. To help you nail down a good makeup application flow, we’ve created a step-by-step guide you can use to learn how to apply face, eye, and lip makeup. We’ve also included product recommendations for the best foundations, mascaras, and more.
How To Prep Your Face For Makeup
Before applying makeup, it’s important to prep your skin to create a good base. So be sure to complete your skin care routine before reaching for any makeup tools. Check out our three tips below for a quick and easy skin care prep routine. 

Step 1: Facial Cleanser
The first step in your skin care routine should be washing your face. Reach for a facial cleanser, like the L'Oréal Paris Revitalift Bright Reveal Brightening Daily Scrub Cleanser, formulated with gentle micro-pearls and glycolic acid to help exfoliate and reveal brighter skin. It cleanses the skin without leaving it feeling dry and stiff. Squeeze a small amount of product into wet hands then gently massage it onto your skin and rinse off thoroughly. 

Step 2: Facial Serum 
Regardless of your skin type, adding a facial serum to your skin care routine could be very beneficial to the look of your complexion. Use the L'Oréal Paris Age Perfect Cell Renewal Midnight Serum, formulated with an exclusive antioxidant recovery complex that helps boost the skin’s renewal process overnight. It also contains hyaluronic acid—a powerful hydrating ingredient that helps lock in moisture to keep the skin hydrated. Right after cleansing, apply three to four drops of this serum in the morning (yup, you can use it in the daytime) and night to help improve radiance and firmness in the skin. 

Step 3: Moisturizer
Finish off your skin care routine by using a moisturizer that’s formulated for your skin type. Grab the L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Normal/Oily Skin, L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Normal/Dry Skin, or L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Extra Dry Skin. Each of these moisturizers is formulated with hyaluronic acid and aloe vera water for long-lasting hydration.

The Best Order To Apply Face Makeup
After completing your skin care routine, you can begin the makeup process. And if you’re wondering if it’s necessary to use a primer or not sure if concealer should come before or after foundation—we can help. Check out our step-by-step guide below for an easy-to-do makeup routine. 

Step 1: Apply A Primer
Using a primer is key to creating a great base for your beauty look, as it provides a grip for the products and works to extend the wear of your makeup. If you have dry skin grab the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro Glow Lock Makeup Primer, which will help give you a glowing finish. For those with oily skin reach for the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro Matte Lock Makeup Primer, formulated to mattify your complexion. 

Step 2: Color Correct
Have dark under-eye circles or redness you want to cover up? Use a color correcting concealer, like the L'Oréal Paris True Match Color Correcting Crayons, which work to neutralize color and transform complexions. Simply blend a small amount of color-correcting concealer onto targeted areas of the skin using your ring finger.

Step 3: Apply Foundation
Foundation is among the few makeup essentials that you don’t want others to see, meaning it’s supposed to look just like your skin but better. So be sure to choose a formula that suits your specific needs. For example, if you have oily skin, you may want to consider using a matte (a.k.a. non-shiny) finish foundation, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Up to 24H Fresh Wear in a Powder, matte finish. Its breathable and weightless formula stays put for up to 24 hours. The best part? It’s waterproof and sweatproof, so you won’t have to worry about touch-ups throughout the day. 

For those with dry skin, grab a radiant finish foundation, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Glow Foundation, which has a hydrating formula that will help give the skin a glowy look for up to 24 hours. Use a damp makeup blender like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Blend Artist Foundation Blender when applying foundation to get even and natural-looking coverage. 

Step 4: Conceal Your Under Eyes 
Next, apply concealer under your eyes and over any blemishes. Foundation does a good job of covering up, but concealer can target any stubborn imperfections and make them nearly non-existent. For a full-coverage option, try L'Oréal Paris Infallible Full Wear Concealer Waterproof, Full Coverage, which comes in 25 various shades to match every skin tone and undertone. Use the included applicator to blend and buff the concealer into your skin.

For those looking to specifically cover up dark under-eye circles, use the L'Oréal Paris True Match Eye Cream in a Concealer, 0.5% hyaluronic acid. This multitasking product provides 24 hour hydration that works to keep the eye area looking fresh and brighter, thanks to its dose of pure hyaluronic acid. 

Step 5: Contour To Add Dimension To Your Face
Now that you’ve created an even foundation base, it’s time to add dimension by chiseling out your cheekbones and jawlines with some contour. Pick out a contour shade from the L’Oréal Paris Infallible Longwear Shaping Foundation Makeup Sticks, which have a creamy, glide-on formula that easily blends into the skin. 

Step 6: Add Some Glow 
Get your glow on or fake a rosy tone by applying a little bronzer, blush, and highlighter. Reach for the L'Oréal Paris True Match Glow Nude Highlighter Palette, which includes all three products. For bronzer and highlighter, apply them on areas where the sun would naturally hit your face (your forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin). Use a fluffy brush to apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks—and remember to smile while doing so! This will help give you a nice placement and add a pop of color to the cheeks. 

The Best Order To Apply Eye Makeup
Now, it’s time to move on to the eyes—grab your eyebrow pencil, eye shadow, mascara, and get ready to work!

Step 1: Define Your Eyebrows
Sculpt and define your eyebrows using the L'Oréal Paris Brow Stylist Waterproof Eyebrow Mechanical Pencil or the L’Oréal Paris Unbelievabrow Longwear Waterproof Gel. Both products will work to create a natural-looking well-defined arch. 

Step 2: Add Color Your Lids 
When applying eyeshadow, first, dust color onto your lids, then follow up with a crease color, and place a dab of highlighter along your brow bone. For a neutral eye makeup look, use the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Pocket Palette Eyeshadow in Boudoir Charme; for a shimmery nighttime eye makeup look, try the L'Oréal Paris Brilliant Eyes Shimmer Liquid Eye Shadow Makeup. 

Step 3: Line Your Eyes 
We’ve found that it’s easiest to apply eyeliner before mascara and after eyeshadow. Reach for a waterproof eyeliner, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Last Waterproof Pencil Eyeliner. You can even use this eyeliner in your waterline (this technique is called tightlining) for added definition. 

Step 4: Mascara
Finally, go for big bold lashes by using the L’Oréal Paris Air Volume Mega Mascara Lightweight Mega Volume Washable. This mascara features a cushioned double-bristle brush—the short side catches lashes from the root and the long side helps spread the product evenly for fully blown out lashes. Thanks to its air-whipped formula, your lashes won’t feel weighed down.

The Best Order To Apply Lip Makeup
You’re almost at the end! After you’ve finished your face and eye makeup, show your lips some love by swiping on some color. 

Step 1: Lip Liner
Before you apply lipstick, use a lip liner to help prevent color from bleeding, which happens when your lipstick runs or smudges outside of your lip lines. Choose a lip liner and outline the natural line of your lips to help make your pout look fuller. You can also color in your lips with liner before applying lipstick to help create a smooth base. Try the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Lip Liner or L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Matte Lip Liner based on the finish of the lipstick you choose.

Step 2: Lipstick
Next, swipe on your lipstick. With so many different colors and formulas available, the possibilities are nearly endless. Whether you opt for something shiny, like the L'Oréal Paris Brilliant Signature Shiny Lip Stain Lipstick, a matte formula like the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Ultra Matte Highly Pigmented Nude Lipstick, or something super pigmented like the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Les Nus by Colour Riche Intense Nude Lipstick, your pout is sure to look stunning.

How To Set Your Makeup Look
After all your work, it’s essential to set your makeup to ensure that it stays in place and lasts throughout the day. Apply a few spritzes of the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Spray & Makeup Extender Setting Spray, formulated to set and prevent your makeup from settling into fine lines. 

Shake well and hold the bottle about eight inches away from your face. Close your eyes and spray it four to six times in an X and T motion. 
How To Remove Your Makeup At The End Of The Day
Sleeping in your makeup can lead to clogged pores—and clogged pores can lead to breakouts. So make sure to remove your makeup by using the L'Oréal Paris Micellar Cleansing Water Complete Cleanser Waterproof – All Skin Types. It will help lift dirt and oil from the skin so you don’t lay foundation over bacteria that can cause breakouts. There’s also no rinsing required, making it ideal for a quick cleanse. Pour some of the product onto a cotton pad, wipe the pad across your face, eyes, and lips.The 9 Steps That Will Help You Learn Anything
Learning new things while maintaining your role as a leader, visionary, and committed worker is challenging, but not impossible.
As an entrepreneur, you’ll be doing a lot of learning, if you want to be successful, that is. You’ll learn skills, which you can apply to your daily tasks and operations; facts and information about your industry, vendors and competition; and of course lessons on how to improve yourself.
But while you’re juggling the daily responsibilities of entrepreneurship and racking your brain to solve the problems associated with them, you may find it difficult to learn new things.
These nine steps will help you learn anything, faster and more efficiently:

1. Talk to someone who’s already learned it.
Think of something challenging you learned how to do, possibly on your own, from the ground up. You probably made a lot of mistakes along the way, and in retrospect, you probably know some shortcuts and tips that could have saved you a lot of time. This is almost universally true; even the most technical and complex subjects have shortcuts that can be taught by anyone familiar enough with the material.

Your first step, then, is to seek out and talk to people who have already learned what you’re learning; ask them for advice, and you’ll probably get it.
2. Immerse yourself in the learning process.
By now, you should know that multitasking is bad. When your brain tries to do multiple things at once (consciously), it usually ends up failing at everything. If you’re going to learn something, you need to immerse yourself in the learning process. If you’re taking lessons, or are reading a book, or are watching online videos, isolate yourself and focus only on that task.

Turn off notifications, and don’t let yourself get distracted. You’ll learn much faster and easier this way.
3. Learn in short bursts.
The best way to study (and preserve your attention) is to focus your efforts in short bursts, as in 20-to-30 minute chunks. Any longer than that, and your attention will start to dwindle. Try to schedule your learning sessions in these short blocks, rather than aiming for occasional marathon sessions.

4. Write everything down.
For multiple reasons, we tend to remember things better once we’ve written them down. It could be because we’re forced to repeat what we’re hearing and thinking in a written format, or it could be a psychological “trick” that teaches our mind that this particular information is worth remembering. Either way, it works. Whether you’re taking notes or committing a lesson to memory, write everything down that you can.

5. Focus on the fundamentals.
When learning something new, it’s helpful to ignore the fluff and focus purely on the most important elements of your subject. For example, if you can learn the 2,000 most common words of a language, you’ll be able to cover roughly 80 percent of the language. If you’re learning chess, memorizing openings probably isn’t as important as mastering the mid-game and basic tactics like skewering.

6. Find a way to self-correct.
Our minds learn best when we’re met with immediate feedback. If something’s right, we need to feel rewarded. If something’s wrong, we should be corrected immediately; this also prevents us from practicing or rehearsing the wrong things. Your system of feedback may depend on an outside party, or semi-constant check-ins with a source (e.g., a book) to ensure you’re getting things right.
7. Practice consistently.
There’s a common belief that it takes about 10,000 hours of practice for anyone to get good at anything -- perpetuated by the book Outliers, by Malcolm Gladwell. Empirical evidence suggests this isn’t quite true, but there’s certainly a wealth of evidence that practice and repetition are your best tools for learning.

This is the way our brains are wired; the more we do something, the more important it becomes, and the more entrenched it becomes in our memory.

8. Explain what you’ve learned to someone else.
If you want to test your knowledge on a subject, try explaining it to someone else. This forces you to reword your innate knowledge, and revisit it from the ground up. It’s a perfect test to see if you’ve truly internalized something -- or if you’ve just been going through the motions of learning.
9. Avoid the dip.
The “Dip,” a term coined by Seth Godin, occurs when you reach a point of dissatisfaction or disinterest with your learning. You might no longer see the novelty in your subject matter or you might be feeling burned out; in any case, you’ll lose momentum, stop studying and fail to master your skill or knowledge.

You can avoid the dip by making your studying habits continually rewarding; set up milestones along the way, and experiment with new learning tactics to keep from getting bored.

Learning new things while maintaining your role as a leader, visionary and committed worker can be challenging, but it certainly isn’t impossible. With these strategies, you’ll be able to learn faster and more efficiently than ever before.

Anyone Can Learn Anything
Are there some people who intrinsically cannot learn? Are there some people who can only learn some things? I don’t think so. In fact, I think anyone can learn anything under the right circumstances.

For all those who struggle with one subject or another, this may seem improbable or even utterly wrong. We all feel more adept in some areas than other ones. We all know how difficult, how impossible, learning math can seem for many.

But even if we lack definitive research to prove this notion of human potential, liberated from cultural and socioeconomic constraints, imagine what doors open if we fully embraced the possibility. Imagine if we treat this notion that anyone can learn anything as a first principle, a responsibility to recognize and serve.

The implications are enormous, challenging educators and other policymakers to rethink the design of our schools and classrooms, and encouraging everyone who gave up on learning something because they believed they lacked the ability to grasp it.

As educators, this pushes us to ask how we have failed to create the conditions where our students can learn anything, and to think through the conditions needed to fully support learning so that any student can reach their potential. 

It may seem improbable to achieve this goal, but this should not be a reason to ignore it. Quite the contrary, this may be exactly the reason to pursue it. Because once we open up this possibility, we open up a way of thinking that challenges us to find solutions that can enhance teaching and learning.

This includes fully recognizing there are different kinds of intelligence and different ways people learn. Harvard educator Howard Gardner’s groundbreaking work posits that there are eight kinds of intelligence, and that we all draw from multiple realms. This reinforces what we already know intuitively: that there is not one path or one way to teach or learn. It puts the onus on our schools, at every level, to recognize and serve this individuality.

How far we still have to go, particularly because socioeconomic differences have essentially cut off large swaths of our population from educational advancement. Talent and ability are not determined by zip code or family income, nor are those with greater wealth more intrinsically equipped to learn and advance. Yet only 15 percent of the lower half of the US population (based on family income) are likely to get a college degree.  

It is our obligation—morally and for the social and economic benefit of our society—to create the conditions that allow talent to flourish among the most diverse population possible. This is one of the core missions of my university.

Engaging the notion that anyone can learn anything also means asking hard questions about the design of our educational systems and the pressure to categorize and pigeonhole students—to place them in one box, one track, or another.

College students are required to pick a single major, yet often fail to fully explore other fields that are critical to their capacity to identify and grasp complex, multi-faceted problems. Well before they get to college, most students are already inclined (or encouraged) to pursue one subject or related fields where they feel most comfortable and capable, rather than tackling multiple majors or struggling with subjects that previously seemed impenetrable.

“This is what I’m good at,” we often hear, as if that gives us a pass on those other fields that are harder for us.

At Arizona State University, we are working to overcome this tendency by increasing the number of transdisciplinary schools and programs. We encourage students from diverse fields to work with each other and find the common threads that enhance their ability to ask questions that depend upon a wide range of knowledge.

We have seen that this process not only opens up new pathways of understanding and enterprise, it also inspires students to explore worlds that previously may have seemed inaccessible. This has led to a hybrid degree program like arts, media and engineering that draws on the creativity of the arts and methodologies from engineering sciences.

We are also taking advantage of new digital tools to help students fill in the gaps in their knowledge and serve the varied ways and pace that students absorb information and deepen understanding. A struggling college algebra student, for example, can benefit from tools that recognize what’s wrong in a given equation and provide a follow-up question to address the missing piece. Such advances in technology are helping us make a real difference in student outcomes.
Given the scale of the challenge, these might appear as small steps to create the right conditions for achieving human potential. To be sure, by the time most students reach college, the patterns of mind and the cultural pressures are already well-ingrained, making it tough to reshape those well-worn grooves. But it can be done with a shift of attitude, a commitment to rethink and redesign, and the desire to maximize our society’s potential.

The human brain is the most powerful, most complex object in the known universe. It is an unbelievable gift. It is up to all of us to help each other make the most of this bountiful resource. 
While it's nice to think you can hack your way to success, whenever you try to accomplish a huge goal, like starting and growing a business -- skills matter.  Who you know is certainly important.

But what you know, and what you can do, matters a whole lot more.

Which means the faster you learn, the more successful you can be.

So let's jump right in.Here are ten ways, backed by science, to speed up the learning process.
1. Say out loud what you want to remember.

Research shows that compared to reading or thinking silently (as if there's another way to think), the act of speech is a "quite powerful mechanism for improving memory for selected information."

According to scientists, "Learning and memory benefit from active involvement. When we add an active measure or a production element to a word, that word becomes more distinct in long-term memory, and hence more memorable."
In short, while mentally rehearsing is good, rehearsing out loud is even better.

2. Take notes by hand, not on a computer.
Most of us can type faster than we can write. (And a lot more neatly.) 

But research shows handwriting your notes means you'll learn more. Oddly enough, taking notes by hand enhances both comprehension and retention, possibly because instead of just serving as a quasi-stenographer, you're forced to put things in your own words in order to keep up.
Maybe that's why Richard Branson has maintained a lifelong habit of keeping a handwritten journal?

3. Chunk your study sessions.
You're busy. So you wait until the last minute to learn what you need to know: A presentation, a sales demo, an investor pitch... 

Bad idea. Research shows "distributed practice" is a much more effective way to learn. 

Imagine you want to nail your investor pitch. Once you've drafted your pitch, run through it once. Then take a few minutes to make corrections and revisions.

Then step away for a few hours, or even for a day, before you repeat the process.

Why does distributed practice work? The "study-phase retrieval theory" says that each time you attempt to retrieve something from memory and the retrieval is more successful, that memory becomes harder to forget. (If you go over your pitch repeatedly, much of your presentation is still top of mind... which means you don't have to retrieve it from memory.)

Another theory regards "contextual variability."  When information gets encoded into memory, some of the context is also encoded. (Which is why listening to an old song can cause you to remember where you were, what you were feeling, etc., when you first heard that song.) That context creates useful cues for retrieving information.

Regardless of how it works, distributed practice definitely works. So give yourself enough time to space out your learning sessions. You'll learn more efficiently and more effectively.

4. Test yourself. A lot.
A number of studies show that self-testing is an extremely effective way to speed up the learning process.

Partly that's due to the additional context created; if you test yourself and answer incorrectly, not only are you more likely to remember the right answer after you look it up... you'll also remember that you didn't remember. (Getting something wrong is a great way to remember it the next time, especially if you tend to be hard on yourself.)

So don't just rehearse your presentation. Test yourself on what comes after your intro. Test yourself by listing the five main points you want to make. Try to recite key statistics, or sales estimates, or cash flow projections....

Not only will you gain confidence in how much you do know, you'll more quickly learn the things you don't know.

Yet. 

5. Change the way you practice.
Repeating anything over and over again in the hopes you will master that task will not only keep you from improving as quickly as you could, in some cases it may actually decrease your skill. 

According to recent research from Johns Hopkins, if you practice a slightly modified version of a task you want to master, "you actually learn more and faster than if you just keep practicing the exact same thing multiple times in a row." The most likely cause is reconsolidation, a process where existing memories are recalled and modified with new knowledge.

Say you want to master a new presentation. Do this:
1. Rehearse the basic skill. Run through your presentation a couple of times under the same conditions you'll eventually face when you do it live. Naturally, the second time through will be better than the first; that's how practice works. But then, instead of going through it a third time ...

2. Wait. Give yourself at least six hours so your memory can consolidate. (Which probably means waiting until tomorrow before you practice again, which is just fine.)

3. Practice again, but this time...

Go a little faster. Speak a little -- just a little -- faster than you normally do. Run through your slides slightly faster. Increasing your speed means you'll make more mistakes, but that's OK -- in the process, you'll modify old knowledge with new knowledge -- and lay the groundwork for improvement. Or ...
Go a little slower. The same thing will happen. (Plus, you can experiment with new techniques -- including the use of silence for effect -- that aren't apparent when you present at your normal speed.) Or ...
Break your presentation into smaller chunks. Almost every task includes a series of discrete steps. That's definitely true for presentations. Pick one section of your presentation. Deconstruct it. Master it. Then put the whole presentation back together. Or ...

Change the conditions. Use a different projector. Or a different remote. Or a lavaliere instead of a headset mic. Switch up the conditions slightly; not only will that help you modify an existing memory, it will also make you better prepared for the unexpected.
4. And keep modifying the conditions.

You can extend the process to almost anything. While it's clearly effective for learning motor skills, the process can also be applied to learning almost anything. 
6. Exercise regularly.
This study shows that regular exercise can improve memory recall. Another study from McMaster University found that periods of high-intensity exercise are good for fitness and memory: Exercise resulted in significant improvements in high-interference memory. (Interference occurs when information that is similar gets in the way of the information you're trying to recall.) 

A commonly used example for high-interference memory is remembering faces, a skill that is especially useful for people hoping to make connections.
Exercise also resulted in an increase in a chemical called BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), a protein that supports the function, growth, and survival of brain cells.

So: Not only will you feel better if you exercise, you'll also improve your memory.

Win-win.

7. Get more sleep.
Sleep is when most of the memory consolidation process occurs. That's why even a short nap can improve your memory recall.
In one study participants memorized illustrated cards to test their memory strength. After memorizing a set of cards they took a 40-minute break and one group napped while the other group stayed awake. After the break both groups were tested on their memory of the cards. The sleep group performed significantly better, retaining on average 85 percent of the patterns compared to 60 percent for those who had remained awake.

Researchers have also found that sleep deprivation can affect your ability to commit new information to memory and consolidate any short-term memories you have made.

Bottom line? Sleep more, learn more.

8. Learn several subjects in succession.
Instead of blocking (focusing on one subject, one task, or one skill during a learning session) learn or practice several subjects or skills in succession. 

The process is called interleaving: Studying related concepts or skills in parallel. And it turns out interleaving is a much more effective way to train your brain (and your motor skills.) 

Why? One theory is that interleaving improves your brain's ability to differentiate between concepts or skills. When you block practice one skill, you can drill down until muscle memory takes over and the skill becomes more or less automatic. When you interleave several skills, any one skill can't become mindless -- and that's a good thing. Instead you're constantly forced to adapt and adjust. You're constantly forced to see, feel, and discriminate between different movements or different concepts. 

And that helps you really learn what you're trying to learn, because you it helps you gain understanding at a deeper level.
9. Teach someone else.
It may be occasionally true that those who can't, teach... but research shows it's definitely true that those who teach speed up their learning and retain more. 

Even just thinking that you'll need to teach someone can make you learn more effectively. According to the researchers, "When teachers prepare to teach, they tend to seek out key points and organize information into a coherent structure. Our results suggest that students also turn to these types of effective learning strategies when they expect to teach."

The act of teaching also helps improve knowledge. Ask anyone who has trained someone else whether they also benefited from the experience.

They definitely did.

10. Build on things you do know.
Relating something new to something you're familiar with is called associative learning. Not the Pavlov's dog form of associative learning, but the kind where you learn the relationship between seemingly unrelated things.

In simple terms, whenever you say, "Oh, I get it... this is basically like that," you're using associative learning. 

Need to learn something new? Try to associate it, at least in part, with something you already know. Then you only have to learn the differences or nuances. And you'll be able to apply greater context -- which will help with memory storage and retrieval -- to the new information you learn.

All of which means you'll need to learn a lot less.

Which science says will result in you being able to learn a lot more quickly.
Now we will learn to make up
When it comes to applying makeup like a pro, there is a general order you should follow to achieve the best end results. However, different things work for different people, so there isn’t just one perfect way to apply makeup. And if you’re struggling with finding a method or wondering whether you should use concealer before or after foundation, you’ve come to the right place. To help you nail down a good makeup application flow, we’ve created a step-by-step guide you can use to learn how to apply face, eye, and lip makeup. We’ve also included product recommendations for the best foundations, mascaras, and more.
How To Prep Your Face For Makeup
Before applying makeup, it’s important to prep your skin to create a good base. So be sure to complete your skin care routine before reaching for any makeup tools. Check out our three tips below for a quick and easy skin care prep routine. 

Step 1: Facial Cleanser
The first step in your skin care routine should be washing your face. Reach for a facial cleanser, like the L'Oréal Paris Revitalift Bright Reveal Brightening Daily Scrub Cleanser, formulated with gentle micro-pearls and glycolic acid to help exfoliate and reveal brighter skin. It cleanses the skin without leaving it feeling dry and stiff. Squeeze a small amount of product into wet hands then gently massage it onto your skin and rinse off thoroughly. 

Step 2: Facial Serum 
Regardless of your skin type, adding a facial serum to your skin care routine could be very beneficial to the look of your complexion. Use the L'Oréal Paris Age Perfect Cell Renewal Midnight Serum, formulated with an exclusive antioxidant recovery complex that helps boost the skin’s renewal process overnight. It also contains hyaluronic acid—a powerful hydrating ingredient that helps lock in moisture to keep the skin hydrated. Right after cleansing, apply three to four drops of this serum in the morning (yup, you can use it in the daytime) and night to help improve radiance and firmness in the skin. 

Step 3: Moisturizer
Finish off your skin care routine by using a moisturizer that’s formulated for your skin type. Grab the L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Normal/Oily Skin, L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Normal/Dry Skin, or L'Oréal Paris Hydra Genius Daily Liquid Care for Extra Dry Skin. Each of these moisturizers is formulated with hyaluronic acid and aloe vera water for long-lasting hydration.

The Best Order To Apply Face Makeup
After completing your skin care routine, you can begin the makeup process. And if you’re wondering if it’s necessary to use a primer or not sure if concealer should come before or after foundation—we can help. Check out our step-by-step guide below for an easy-to-do makeup routine. 

Step 1: Apply A Primer
Using a primer is key to creating a great base for your beauty look, as it provides a grip for the products and works to extend the wear of your makeup. If you have dry skin grab the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro Glow Lock Makeup Primer, which will help give you a glowing finish. For those with oily skin reach for the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro Matte Lock Makeup Primer, formulated to mattify your complexion. 

Step 2: Color Correct
Have dark under-eye circles or redness you want to cover up? Use a color correcting concealer, like the L'Oréal Paris True Match Color Correcting Crayons, which work to neutralize color and transform complexions. Simply blend a small amount of color-correcting concealer onto targeted areas of the skin using your ring finger.

Step 3: Apply Foundation
Foundation is among the few makeup essentials that you don’t want others to see, meaning it’s supposed to look just like your skin but better. So be sure to choose a formula that suits your specific needs. For example, if you have oily skin, you may want to consider using a matte (a.k.a. non-shiny) finish foundation, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Up to 24H Fresh Wear in a Powder, matte finish. Its breathable and weightless formula stays put for up to 24 hours. The best part? It’s waterproof and sweatproof, so you won’t have to worry about touch-ups throughout the day. 

For those with dry skin, grab a radiant finish foundation, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Glow Foundation, which has a hydrating formula that will help give the skin a glowy look for up to 24 hours. Use a damp makeup blender like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Blend Artist Foundation Blender when applying foundation to get even and natural-looking coverage. 

Step 4: Conceal Your Under Eyes 
Next, apply concealer under your eyes and over any blemishes. Foundation does a good job of covering up, but concealer can target any stubborn imperfections and make them nearly non-existent. For a full-coverage option, try L'Oréal Paris Infallible Full Wear Concealer Waterproof, Full Coverage, which comes in 25 various shades to match every skin tone and undertone. Use the included applicator to blend and buff the concealer into your skin.

For those looking to specifically cover up dark under-eye circles, use the L'Oréal Paris True Match Eye Cream in a Concealer, 0.5% hyaluronic acid. This multitasking product provides 24 hour hydration that works to keep the eye area looking fresh and brighter, thanks to its dose of pure hyaluronic acid. 

Step 5: Contour To Add Dimension To Your Face
Now that you’ve created an even foundation base, it’s time to add dimension by chiseling out your cheekbones and jawlines with some contour. Pick out a contour shade from the L’Oréal Paris Infallible Longwear Shaping Foundation Makeup Sticks, which have a creamy, glide-on formula that easily blends into the skin. 

Step 6: Add Some Glow 
Get your glow on or fake a rosy tone by applying a little bronzer, blush, and highlighter. Reach for the L'Oréal Paris True Match Glow Nude Highlighter Palette, which includes all three products. For bronzer and highlighter, apply them on areas where the sun would naturally hit your face (your forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin). Use a fluffy brush to apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks—and remember to smile while doing so! This will help give you a nice placement and add a pop of color to the cheeks. 

The Best Order To Apply Eye Makeup
Now, it’s time to move on to the eyes—grab your eyebrow pencil, eye shadow, mascara, and get ready to work!

Step 1: Define Your Eyebrows
Sculpt and define your eyebrows using the L'Oréal Paris Brow Stylist Waterproof Eyebrow Mechanical Pencil or the L’Oréal Paris Unbelievabrow Longwear Waterproof Gel. Both products will work to create a natural-looking well-defined arch. 

Step 2: Add Color Your Lids 
When applying eyeshadow, first, dust color onto your lids, then follow up with a crease color, and place a dab of highlighter along your brow bone. For a neutral eye makeup look, use the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Pocket Palette Eyeshadow in Boudoir Charme; for a shimmery nighttime eye makeup look, try the L'Oréal Paris Brilliant Eyes Shimmer Liquid Eye Shadow Makeup. 

Step 3: Line Your Eyes 
We’ve found that it’s easiest to apply eyeliner before mascara and after eyeshadow. Reach for a waterproof eyeliner, like the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Last Waterproof Pencil Eyeliner. You can even use this eyeliner in your waterline (this technique is called tightlining) for added definition. 

Step 4: Mascara
Finally, go for big bold lashes by using the L’Oréal Paris Air Volume Mega Mascara Lightweight Mega Volume Washable. This mascara features a cushioned double-bristle brush—the short side catches lashes from the root and the long side helps spread the product evenly for fully blown out lashes. Thanks to its air-whipped formula, your lashes won’t feel weighed down.

The Best Order To Apply Lip Makeup
You’re almost at the end! After you’ve finished your face and eye makeup, show your lips some love by swiping on some color. 

Step 1: Lip Liner
Before you apply lipstick, use a lip liner to help prevent color from bleeding, which happens when your lipstick runs or smudges outside of your lip lines. Choose a lip liner and outline the natural line of your lips to help make your pout look fuller. You can also color in your lips with liner before applying lipstick to help create a smooth base. Try the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Lip Liner or L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Matte Lip Liner based on the finish of the lipstick you choose.

Step 2: Lipstick
Next, swipe on your lipstick. With so many different colors and formulas available, the possibilities are nearly endless. Whether you opt for something shiny, like the L'Oréal Paris Brilliant Signature Shiny Lip Stain Lipstick, a matte formula like the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Ultra Matte Highly Pigmented Nude Lipstick, or something super pigmented like the L'Oréal Paris Colour Riche Les Nus by Colour Riche Intense Nude Lipstick, your pout is sure to look stunning.

How To Set Your Makeup Look
After all your work, it’s essential to set your makeup to ensure that it stays in place and lasts throughout the day. Apply a few spritzes of the L'Oréal Paris Infallible Pro-Spray & Makeup Extender Setting Spray, formulated to set and prevent your makeup from settling into fine lines. 

Shake well and hold the bottle about eight inches away from your face. Close your eyes and spray it four to six times in an X and T motion. 
How To Remove Your Makeup At The End Of The Day
Sleeping in your makeup can lead to clogged pores—and clogged pores can lead to breakouts. So make sure to remove your makeup by using the L'Oréal Paris Micellar Cleansing Water Complete Cleanser Waterproof – All Skin Types. It will help lift dirt and oil from the skin so you don’t lay foundation over bacteria that can cause breakouts. There’s also no rinsing required, making it ideal for a quick cleanse. Pour some of the product onto a cotton pad, wipe the pad across your face, eyes, and lips.
A systematic review of types of healthy eating interventions in preschools
Abstract
Background
With the worldwide levels of obesity new venues for promotion of healthy eating habits are necessary. Considering children’s eating habits are founded during their preschool years early educational establishments are a promising place for making health promoting interventions.

Methods
This systematic review evaluates different types of healthy eating interventions attempting to prevent obesity among 3 to 6 year-olds in preschools, kindergartens and day care facilities. Studies that included single interventions, educational interventions and/or multicomponent interventions were eligible for review. Included studies also had to have conducted both baseline and follow-up measurements.

A systematic search of the databases Scopus, Web of Science, CINAHL and PubMed was conducted to identify articles that met the inclusion criteria. The bibliographies of identified articles were also searched for relevant articles.

Results
The review identified 4186 articles, of which 26 studies met the inclusion criteria. Fifteen of the interventions took place in preschools, 10 in kindergartens and 1 in another facility where children were cared for by individuals other than their parents. Seventeen of the 26 included studies were located in North America, 1 in South America, 5 in Asia, and 3 in a European context.

Healthy eating interventions in day care facilities increased fruit and vegetable consumption and nutrition related knowledge among the target groups. Only 2 studies reported a significant decrease in body mass index.

Conclusions
This review highlights the scarcity of properly designed healthy eating interventions using clear indicators and verifiable outcomes. The potential of preschools as a potential setting for influencing children’s food choice at an early age should be more widely recognised and utilised.
Introduction
The worldwide prevalence of overweight and obesity among preschool children has increased from 4.2% (95% CI: 3.2%, 5.2%) in 1990 to 6.7% (95% CI: 5.6% – 7.7%) in 2010 and is expected to increase even further to 9.1% (95% CI: 7.3 – 10.9) in 2020 [1]. This increase is disturbing due to the accompanying social, psychological and health effects and the link to subsequent morbidity and mortality in adulthood [2, 3].

Considering the consequences of overweight and obesity on both a personal and societal level, healthier eating habits among children should be promoted as one of the actions to prevent overweight and obesity in future generations. The most common place for health promotion among children has previously been in the school setting mostly with children aged 6 to 12 years-old. But, there are promising findings in interventions targeting infants and 5-year-olds, although there is an underrepresentation of interventions and research within this age group [4]. Most of these interventions have been taking place in early education
establishments for 3–6 year-olds like preschools in the U.S. or kindergartens as they are called outside the U.S. as well as daycare facilities, where children are nursed by a childcare giver in a private home. In this setting children consume a large number of their meals and may consume up to 70% of their daily nutrient intake [5]. These captive settings present a venue for intervention because institutional catering may be designed in such a way that nutritional guidelines are followed, resulting in an adequate food intake [6] and improved food choices later in life [7]. The objectives of the early educational establishments are often to teach and develop the child’s opportunities and skills that will prepare them for a better future [8] and many of the previous interventions have either focused on developing food preferences among children often by exposure or with nutritional educational interventions or with a combination of these two approaches. Previous reviews have included intervention studies that evaluated the outcomes of dietary educational interventions versus control on changes in BMI, prevalence of obesity, rate of weight gain and other outcomes like reduction in body fat, but as stated previously this did not yield a sufficient number of studies to provide recommendations for practice [4, 9]. The Toybox study [10] has published a number of reviews about several aspects of health promotion efforts for pre-schoolers including the assessments tools of energy-related behaviours used in European obesity prevention strategies [11], the effective behavioural models and behaviour change strategies underpinning preschool and school-based prevention interventions aimed at 4-6-year-olds [12]. They also published a narrative review of psychological and educational strategies applied to young children’s eating behaviour in order to reduce the risk of obesity and found that there was potential for exposure and rewards studies to improve children’s eating habits [13]. None of the recent published studies have included both interventions that include both exposure or meal modification and educational interventions and multicomponent interventions that combine both approaches. With the exception of [13] all the previous reviews include physical activity and although this is an important factor in obesity prevention, many interventions do only focus on nutritional education and is as such excluded from previous reviews.
The objective of this article is to review published literature on healthy eating interventions in day care facilities and analyse the effectiveness of different strategies in relation to their influence on children’s food choice at an early age. Based on findings, this article also provides recommendations for future interventions.

Methods
A systematic search for literature using four databases (PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science and CINAHL) was carried out. The search strategy was based on a careful selection of keywords and clear, pre-established criteria for inclusion of studies.
Inclusion criteria
Included studies were intervention studies with the objective of treating or preventing the occurrence of obesity by influencing preschool children’s eating habits. As a prerequisite for inclusion, the healthy eating interventions had to take place in institutions and had to have taken both baseline and follow-up measurements. Although it is acknowledged that physical activity interventions are important and should not be disregarded, this study focuses solely on healthy eating interventions. Only studies targeting children aged 3 to 6 years were included as it is this age group that predominantly attends early education facilities. Since early education and school systems vary from country to country, it was decided to include all interventions in day care facilities if the mean age was between 3 to 6 years old. Children in included studies also had to be healthy at initial baseline measurement, although obese children were included in order to recognize the already existing prevalence of overweight and obesity in children and the necessity to acknowledge treatment of this particular target group. Interventions that focused on diet, nutrition, food, eating or meals in day care facilities were included. Due to the importance of environmental factors in children’s acquirement of healthy eating habits, interventions including kitchen employees and childcare givers in day care facilities were also included. As the review concerns itself with the effectiveness of different interventional strategies, the types of interventions were categorized into single component interventions, educational components, and multicomponent interventions that aiming to promote healthy eating habits and counteract obesogenic actions in children attending day care facilities.

The review included studies measuring biological, anthropometric and attitudinal outcomes: body mass index, z-scores for height and weight, waist to height measurements, serum cholesterol levels, skin-fold measurements or prevalence of overweight and obesity in the sample population, as well as food consumption patterns, knowledge and attitude towards foods and liking and willingness to try new food.
Exclusion criteria
Research into weight loss of obese children and any interventions involving children with special needs or who were chronically sick and required on-going counselling, such as patients with diabetes or heart disease, were excluded from the review. Studies taking place in nursery, primary or elementary schools were also excluded when the mean age was either younger than 3 years or older than 6 years old. Interventions targeting parents of preschool children and descriptive articles about pre-schoolers behaviour, knowledge and consumption were also excluded. Lastly, studies including a physical activity component were excluded unless the dietary component was clearly separated from the physical activity intervention during implementation and analysis.

Conducting the search
Literature for the review was obtained using a systematic search conducted during spring 2014 with relevant literature published up to and including the search period. A meta-analysis was intended, however due to a lack of sufficient data, a meta-analytical comparison was difficult to deploy.

Databases
The databases Scopus, Web of Science, CINAHL and PubMed databases were used for the literature search. The search was restricted to articles written in English, German, Norwegian, Swedish, and Danish as these were the language capabilities present in the reviewing group. The filter for research involving humans only was activated and the search was conducted to obtain articles published between 1980 and 2014.
The search strategy was created using relevant terms describing settings, possible inputs in an intervention and possible outputs of an intervention. The search terms were refined a number of times in order to optimize the selection of articles, without compromising with the sensitivity of the search in order to take into account the vast number of articles published on the topic of children and obesity. The keywords can be found in Table 1.
Data collection and analysis
Selection of studies
Articles identified in the literature search were read by the first author and divided between three reviewers for further evaluation and was debated in meetings with all three reviewers present.

For each of the located interventions, the following was extracted: aim of the study, setting where 3–6 year-olds were cared for by others than their parents, study design, characteristics of the target group, sampling methods, sample size, ethnicity, and theoretical background. Furthermore; duration, content and delivery mechanism of the intervention was extracted, as well as information about the control group, random allocation to control or treatment and whether there was information missing from the article.
Quality assessment
The quality of the identified studies was assessed using a rating scheme from * (weak) to **** (very strong). The studies were rated according to the level of information available, study design, risk of bias, study population and study duration. The quality rating scheme was adapted from the Cochrane guidelines on quality assessment [14]. Table 2 illustrates definition and explanation of the research design rating scheme. Each included study was rated independently among the three first authors (MVM, SH & LRS) with strong inter-rater reliability and disputes over assessment were settled through discussion.
Results
The 26 studies that the literature search resulted in were divided into 8 single intervention studies, 11 educational interventions and 7 multicomponent studies. The single intervention studies involved the modification of a single factor in the environment in order to promote fruit or vegetable intake and preferences in children. Educational interventions were carried out in the kindergartens, either by teachers that had undergone a teaching program or by nutritional educators provided by the research program and aiming to increase children’s knowledge of healthy eating. Multicomponent interventions included more than one strategy to influence eating behaviour.

Table 3 shows the characteristics of the studies.
Populations studied
Altogether, 17 of the 26 included studies were North American, three of the studies were carried out in Asia, five in a European context and one study was conducted in South America. Thirteen of the interventions took place in preschools, 10 in kindergartens and three in other facilities where 3 to 6 year-olds were cared for by others than their parents.

Ethnicity and socio-demographic characteristics of participants
The majority of the single interventions was from the USA and included Caucasians. The educational interventions did not present a clear picture of any tendencies. All of the American multicomponent interventions were targeted towards low-income families or families from African-American or Latino backgrounds. The European interventions targeted children from middleclass families.

Interventions
Of the single intervention studies identified the majority [10, 17–20, 22] made modifications to the serving of vegetables, serving either novel or non-preferred vegetables and looked at the effect on vegetable preferences as well as whether peer-models had an influence on the children’s intake during lunch.

We identified eleven interventions consisting of nutritional educational programs carried out either by teachers in the kindergarten, individuals that had undergone a training program or by nutritional educators provided by the research project.

Seven multicomponent interventions included educational activities for the children and delivered similarly to the educational activities described previously. The multicomponent interventions also encompassed other activities like availability of fresh water and fruits and in some cases vegetables [8, 36, 39] the children participation in growing their own vegetables [22, 37], newsletters for parents [36, 41], food modifications in the canteen[42] and healthy school policies [41]. A detailed description of the interventions can be found in Table 3.

Table 4 shows the quality assessment and outcomes of interventions.
The study design of included studies
Fourteen of the 26 studies included in this review were randomized controlled studies or cluster randomized controlled trials. Nine quasi-experimental designed studies were found primarily as single or educational intervention [20–23, 29, 32–34, 42]. Only one study used a crossover design as control [19], but neither the sampling method nor the time between intervention and control were stated, making the control effect limited.

Sampling methods
Random sampling had been used in only five of the 26 studies as most of the studies were based on convenience sampling. Two studies combined random and convenience sampling [22, 34]. Four studies did not describe the sampling method used [19, 23, 30, 31, 35].
Sample size
Sample sizes varied greatly between single interventions and the educational and multicomponent interventions. The mean sample size of the single component interventions was 78 and the mean sample size among the educational and multicomponent interventions were 1031 and 522. The mean sample size of all 26 studies was 601.

Main target behaviours
Food preferences, willingness-to-try novel foods and nutrient intake during lunch were the most used target behaviours in the single interventions. Not surprisingly knowledge and attitudes were the most used target behaviours in the educational interventions, but also consumption of target foods were evaluated using food frequency questionnaires answered by parents. The consumption of target foods were also evaluated in multicomponent studies, but here the intake was measured using observation by researchers or teachers in the setting, just as it was the case for single interventions. Anthropometric measurements of height and weight were applied across the studies, although they only happened in two single interventions [19, 20], however it was only used to control for BMI in the statistical analysis. The multicomponent interventions included other anthropometric measures as well.

Duration of intervention
The single change interventions were relatively short in duration, lasting from 3 to 4 days and up to 6 weeks. The educational interventions with a smaller sample size lasted from 5 to 8 weeks and the studies involving a higher number of participants were of longer duration of between 10 months to 2 years. However, there were exceptions to this, including Cason [25] who evaluated a preschool nutrition program involving 6102 children over 24 weeks and Parcel et al., [32] who carried out a 4 year study targeting approximately 200 preschool children Hendy [20] failed to report their intervention duration. The duration of the multicomponent interventions was generally between 4 and 7 months and up to 1 year.
Theoretical foundations of interventions
16 of the 26 included interventions did not base their interventions on health behavioural theories. 6 of the studies used Bandura’s social cognitive theory or the related social learning theory. Piaget’s developmental theory was used in 2 studies and others were the theory of multiple intelligences or Zajonc’s exposure theory.

Information missing from articles
In the single interventions Hendy [20] failed to state the duration of their intervention and Ramsey et al. [23] did not mention their allocation process, however this was due to the study taking place at one canteen without individual data. Nemet et al. [30] and Witt et al. [35] failed to report their sampling process, which was quite surprising considering the high research rigour their studies otherwise presented.
Bias
The single interventions generally had small sample sizes, lacked controls and were of relatively short duration and with a short period of time in-between the exposure and follow-up measurements and. The majority of studies in both the educational and multicomponent intervention groups suffered from low response rates.

Effects of interventions
Single intervention
Single exposure interventions failed to demonstrate a significant increase in vegetable consumption. Fruit intake was more easily influenced, however. Results also showed that younger children in particular were influenced by role models and that girls may be more promising role models than boys [17, 18].
Educational intervention
None of the educational interventions resulted in a change in anthropometric measurements, with the exception of [30] who observed a significant decrease in children’s BMI in the overweight children group who became normal weight. At follow-up after one year the BMI and BMI percentiles were significantly lower in the intervention group compared to the control group. Promising results were also found in 6 of the studies where an increase in the consumption of fruit and vegetables was observed. However, none of these changes were significant at the 0.05 level, with the exception of [35], where a significant increase was found in the consumption of fruit by 20.8% and in vegetable snacks by 33.1%. Witt et al. [35] found a significant increase in vegetables served outside preschools, but this was based on mother’s own food frequency data, which may have biased the results [33]. One of the major effects of the educational interventions was in the level of knowledge among its participants. For instance, the level of nutrition-related knowledge increased in two studies [24, 30] and the identification of fruits and vegetables increased in two studies [25, 27].
Multicomponent interventions
Six of the multicomponent interventions showed a significant increase in fruit and vegetable consumption, but one found the effect only to be present on fruit consumption after follow-up after 1 year. None of the other studies found an effect on BMI, but one intervention resulted in a decrease in the relative risk of serum cholesterol among children [42]. Only one study [39] evaluated knowledge and found that familiarity with novel foods increased significantly.

Discussion and conclusions
This review finds that healthy eating interventions can influence the consumption of vegetables through different strategies. The studies acknowledged that a single exposure strategy was insufficient to increase vegetable consumption and that there needs to be an education component as well. This was supported by the fact that the over half of the educational interventions and six of the eight multicomponent interventions resulted in an increase in vegetable consumption. The increase in consumption was greater in the multicomponent studies which could indicate that the more comprehensive the intervention strategy, the more likely the intervention is to be successful.

The effectiveness of the interventions on anthropometric change was more inconclusive, the single interventions did not include measures of BMI and considering how short the duration of their interventions were, it might also be difficult to find change in anthropometric measures. None of the other intervention types that did in fact use anthropometric measurements found an effect on BMI, with the exception of [31]. However Witt et al. [35] found an effect on serum cholesterol.
The educational and the majority of multicomponent interventions included an educational component and the former did find significant increases in nutrition related knowledge, but the multicomponent interventions did not evaluate intermediate effects of knowledge in addition to anthropometrics. This highlights the fact that multicomponent interventions should include measures on knowledge, when they include an educational component, particularly, because the duration of multicomponent interventions often was shorter than the pure educational interventions and anthropometric change is difficult to find during short intervention periods. A lack of follow-up in all of the interventions makes it difficult to conclude whether the observed effects were sustainable over time. With the exception of De Bock et al. [38] and Hoffman et al. [40] the multicomponent and even some of the educational intervention failed either to base or mention the theoretical foundations that they based their educational programmes on. This may be excused in the single interventions that base their studies on empirical data from food choice development theories, but interventions aiming at delivering educational programmes should have some knowledge of health behavioural or educational theories that explains the process behind the success or failure of the implementation of their educational programs. This is again highlighted by the fact that
process evaluations were only performed in three of the interventions and the evaluations consisted of either revision of the provided educational materials or checking the adherence to the program, but they did not focus on drivers or barriers behind the implementation of the interventions and thereby to increase the understanding of what made the intervention successful or unsuccessful.

Ethnicity and socio-demographic background play an important role in the development of eating habits and this should be taken into account so interventions are targeted towards those that need it the most. A setting-based approach can be an important intermediate for this, if it is applied to institutions where children of low-income families are nursed and educated. Several educational and multicomponent interventions were targeted towards institutions with children of low-income families and several of them e.g. Cespedes et al. [26], Vereecken et al. [41], and Williams et al. [42] had positive results especially on the consumption of fruits and vegetables that supports the notion of early education establishments as a potential setting to decrease inequalities in health.
Quality of the evidence
Overall the quality of the intervention studies became better the more comprehensive they were; the single intervention studies were generally of weak quality with small sample sizes, short durations and, in some cases, a lack of controls, which makes it difficult to generalize to a larger population, especially because they were mostly carried out among American Caucasians from families with high socio-economic status. The educational interventions were of better quality and with the largest populations, but still suffered from limitations like lack of consideration in the allocation process, in some cases lack of controls and high drop-out rates. The multicomponent interventions were the most well-designed studies, but also suffered from high drop-out rates and as mentioned above the effectiveness of the educational components were difficult conclude upon, because they failed to evaluate on knowledge. With the exception of Nemet et al. [31] there was a lack of follow-up evaluations that makes it difficult to state whether the outcomes of interventions are sustainable over time.
Author’s conclusions
Implications for practice
The majority of interventions found promising results when targeting the consumption of healthy foods or when attempting to increase children’s knowledge of healthy eating, providing sufficient evidence in support of using preschools as a setting for the prevention of chronic disease by making behavioural and lifestyle changes. Interventions are more likely to be successful if they take actions on several levels into account.

Implications for research
This review supports the need for a longer follow-up of intervention studies in order to assess whether results will be sustainable and how they might influence children’s eating habits later in life. Anthropometric measurements were included in some of the multicomponent interventions but as nutritional status measured as BMI does not change rapidly, interventions using BMI as the outcome measure should be of a longer duration or they should include other intermediate measures such as knowledge and consumption in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention.

Parents may not always be aware of what their children consume outside of the home, or about their knowledge surrounding fruits and vegetables, particularly when children learn about food and healthy eating behaviour in their kindergartens. Even though many choices are made on behalf of the children by their parents at home, children today spend a reasonably large amount of time away from the home environment in day care facilities, together with playmates or cared by other members of family. As a result, a child’s food choice is no longer restricted to being a sole family matter. Children’s knowledge and awareness of food is also being influenced in pedagogical activities, in day care facilities or by talking to their peers. It would therefore be suitable to develop innovative data collection methods, ensuring that the children are able to express what they like to eat and what they know about a given food-related topic. Such innovative research methods should take the developmental stages of the children into account and could perhaps rely more heavily on pictures or on IT material.

The review found that healthy eating interventions in preschools could significantly increase fruit and vegetable consumption and nutrition-related knowledge among pre-school children if the strategy used, is either educational or an educational in combination with supporting component. It further highlights the relative scarcity of properly designed interventions, with clear indicators and verifiable outcomes. Key messages are that preschools are a potentially important setting for influencing children’s food choice at an early age and that there is still room for research in this field. Healthy eating promotion efforts have previously been focusing on schools, but within the last decade the focus have started to shift to pre-schoolers. This review synthesizes some of the interventions that promote healthy eating habits on early education establishments using different strategies. The field of health promotion among this younger age group is still in its earlier stages, but future studies with thorough research designs are currently being undertaken like the Toybox study [10] and The Growing Health Study [43], the healthy caregivers-Healthy children [44] and the Program Si! [45]. These studies may improve our understanding of the effectiveness and underlying mechanisms behind successful implementation of healthy eating efforts in early education establishments.

Highlights
Healthy eating interventions in preschools were classified by their type.

Comprehensive interventions were more likely to succeed in behaviour change, especially when targeting children of low-income families

Preschools are a promising venue for increasing fruit and vegetable consumption.

Evaluations showed a positive increase in food-related knowledge.

Properly designed interventions, with clear indicators and outcomes are scarce.

Most of my friends like to stay inside to play video games, read books or watch TV, but I have a good hobby of going outside and playing sports. I play many different sports in my free time; some of them are soccer, swimming, volleyball and basketball. Sometimes I also ride the bikes or do board skating with my cousin in the park. In my opinion, doing sport is one of the rare hobbies that actually have good impacts on me. I am taller than most of my classmates thanks to swimming and basketball lessons that I take during summer time. My muscles are even stronger than my older brother, and I can last longer than most other people in any sport competition. Sports bring me a lot of benefits, and they are also fun things to do at the same time. I love the feeling of the cool water run through my face when I am swimming, and it seems like I am flying whenever I take a dive underwater. When I play soccer, it is very exciting for me or my teammates to score a goal even though we do not take part in any tournament. Both of my physical and mental health become better after I play sports, so it can be considered as the best things to do in my free time. Sports are like a part of my life besides other activities, and I will continue to play sports till I am too weak for them.
4. Write about your favorite subject at school
When going to school, there are many subjects; however I still like literature the most. First, literature plays an important role in both education and daily life. Literature is not limit to a subject to be learnt at school. Furthermore, this subject teaches human about several aspects of life. From the very first step, student learns to write, read as well as describe things and people. Moreover, literature teaches one to be a responsible citizen and likeable personality. Literature is more than a subject, it’s an art and it can be applied directly into life such as: journalism, editor. People are not born to learn this unique subject, it needs long time to exercise to master. Besides, when learning literature people not only know more works of art but also understand culture, tradition of each country. Literature is the mirror reflecting human and their lifestyle. Studying literature means learning the way to love and live a true life. All in all, with great benefits of literature, it is necessary for each society especially developing countries.
5. Write about your favorite sport
I love a quite strange sport for everyone, and it is ping pong. Not many people in Vietnam who are interested in ping pong, and it is also hard to find a place to actually have enough equipment to play it. Ping pong, or it also known as table tennis, consists of two or four players hitting a lightweight ball back and forth on a table. The table is divided in two halves by a net, and it marks the playing zone of each team. The basic rule for amateurs is pretty simple as players need to let the ball touch their side of the table one time before bouncing back. They then hit the ball back to their opponent’s side with a small paddle, and this time the ball also need to touch the other side of the table as well. A point is counted when a player fail to return back the ball, let it touch the net, or make it land outside of the table. Since it is played on a table, so the area is not big enough for us to wait and think about the next move. Therefore, we need to play it with fast reactions and nonstop motions. We only have one second to act the next step right after hitting the ball, and it does not take much time to complete a set. In a competition, and match usually consists of five or seven sets, and the first one to score 11 points wins a set. Many people do not take this sport serious, but I think it is a very good sport to train both of our physical and mental health as we need to be tough and have quick reactions at the same time.
6. Write about a person you love most
My mother is a person I admire most. She devoted a lot of time and energy to the upbringing of my two brothers and I. Despite working hard, she always made time to teach us many useful things which are necessary and important in our later lives. Moreover, she is a good role model for me to follow. She always tries to get on well with people who live next door and help everyone when they are in difficulties, so most of them respect and love her. I admire and look up to my mother because she not only brings me up well but also stands by me and gives some help if necessary. For example, when I encounter some difficulties, she will give me some precious advice to help me solve those problems. She has a major influence on me and I hope that I will inherit some of her traits.